PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 517

Chapter 517

(House Bill 90)

AN ACT concerning

Local Government – Regulatory Powers – ~~Control~~ ~~of~~ ~~Running~~ Regulation of
Invasive Bamboo

FOR the purpose of authorizing the governing bodies of counties and municipalities to
adopt ordinances ~~relating~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~upkeep~~ ~~and~~ ~~containment~~ ~~of~~ ~~running~~ to regulate
invasive bamboo; and generally relating to the ~~control~~ ~~of~~ ~~running~~ regulation of
invasive bamboo.

BY adding to
Article – Local Government
Section ~~13–412~~ 1–1318
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Local Government

~~13–412.~~ 1–1318.

(A) IN SECTION, ~~“RUNNING~~ BAMBOO”THIS INVASIVE MEANS BAMBOO THAT
BEHAVIOR,IS CHARACTERIZED BY AGGRESSIVE SPREADING INCLUDING BAMBOO
PHYLLOSTACHYS.SPECIES IN THE GENUS

(B) THIS MUNICIPALITIES.SECTION APPLIES TO ALL COUNTIES AND

(C) THE MUNICIPALITY, ORDINANCE,GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY OR BY
BAMBOO,MAY ~~PROHIBIT~~ REGULATE INVASIVE INCLUDING BY PROHIBITING A
~~BAMBOO:~~PERSON FROM ~~ALLOWING~~ ~~RUNNING~~

(1) BAMBOO;SELLING INVASIVE

(2) BAMBOO;PLANTING INVASIVE AND

(3) ALLOWING INVASIVE BAMBOO TO GROW ON THE PROPERTY OF
THE PERSON WITHOUT PROPER UPKEEP AND APPROPRIATE CONTAINMENT
MEASURES, TRENCHES; ~~OR.~~INCLUDING BARRIERS OR

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 517 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(2)~~ ~~TO:~~~~TO~~ ~~SPREAD~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROPERTY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERSON~~

~~(I)~~ ~~PERSON;~~~~THE~~ ~~ADJOINING~~ ~~PROPERTY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ANOTHER~~ ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~RIGHT–OF–WAY.~~~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~

~~(C)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(2)~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~~~TO~~ ~~PARAGRAPHS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~THE~~
~~GOVERNING~~ ~~BODY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ENFORCEMENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~
~~BY:~~~~ORDINANCE~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~

~~(I)~~ ~~OFFENSE,~~ ~~$50;~~~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~FIRST~~ ~~A~~ ~~CIVIL~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~
~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~SECOND~~ ~~OR~~ ~~SUBSEQUENT~~ ~~OFFENSE~~ ~~OCCURRING~~
~~12–MONTH~~~~WITHIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERIOD~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~ARISE~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~ ~~OPERATIVE~~
~~VIOLATION,~~ ~~$200.~~~~SET~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FACTS~~ ~~AS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PREVIOUS~~ ~~A~~ ~~CIVIL~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~

~~(2)~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~DAY~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~A~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~CONTINUES~~ ~~IS~~ ~~A~~
~~OFFENSE.~~~~SEPARATE~~

~~(3)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TOTAL~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~FINES~~ ~~IMPOSED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~VIOLATIONS~~
~~$3,000~~~~ARISING~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~ ~~OPERATIVE~~ ~~SET~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FACTS~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~
~~12–MONTH~~ ~~PERIOD.~~

(D) THE GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPALITY MAY PROVIDE
BY:FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF AN ORDINANCE ADOPTED UNDER THIS SECTION

(1) REQUIRING ANY DAMAGES CAUSED BY INVASIVE BAMBOO TO BE
MITIGATED; AND

(2) FINE.ESTABLISHING A CIVIL

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 2 –