PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 513

Chapter 513

(House Bill 2)

AN ACT concerning

Income Tax – Subtraction Modification – Union Dues

FOR the purpose of allowing a subtraction modification under the Maryland income tax for
certain union dues paid during the taxable year; and generally relating to a
subtraction modification under the Maryland income tax for the payment of union
dues.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Tax – General
Section ~~10–208(a)~~ 10–207(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Tax – General
Section ~~10–208(cc)~~ 10–207(oo)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Tax – General

~~10–208.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~In~~ ~~addition~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~modification~~ ~~under~~ ~~§~~ ~~10–207~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subtitle,~~ ~~the~~ ~~amounts~~
~~under~~ ~~this~~ ~~section~~ ~~are~~ ~~subtracted~~ ~~from~~ ~~the~~ ~~federal~~ ~~adjusted~~ ~~gross~~ ~~income~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~resident~~ ~~to~~
~~determine~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~adjusted~~ ~~gross~~ ~~income.~~

10–207.

(a) To the extent included in federal adjusted gross income, the amounts under
this section are subtracted from the federal adjusted gross income of a resident to determine
Maryland adjusted gross income.

~~(CC)~~ (OO) ~~(1)~~ THE (A)SUBTRACTION ALLOWED UNDER SUBSECTION OF
THIS SECTION INCLUDES THE AMOUNT OF UNION DUES PAID BY AN INDIVIDUAL
DURING THE TAXABLE YEAR THAT ~~WOULD~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~BEEN~~ WERE ALLOWED AS A
§ 162 INTERNAL REVENUE CODE JANUARY 1,DEDUCTION UNDER OF THE PRIOR TO

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 513 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

2018, § 67 INTERNALWITHOUT REGARD TO THE LIMITATION IMPOSED BY OF THE
REVENUE CODE.

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SUBTRACTION~~ ~~ALLOWED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(1)~~ ~~$250~~~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~TAXABLE~~
~~YEAR.~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023, and shall be applicable to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 2 –