PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 664

Chapter 664

(House Bill 66)

AN ACT concerning

Circuit Courts and District Court – Dishonored Checks – Service Charges

FOR the purpose of increasing the amount of the service charge that may be imposed by a
circuit court or the District Court for a dishonored check; and generally relating to
service charges for dishonored checks.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 7–208 and 7–301(d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

7–208.

(A) If any person gives a check to the clerk to pay for any charge or for any other
[bank]purpose and the check is not honored by the on which itFINANCIAL INSTITUTION
[$10] $30is drawn, the clerk may impose a service charge of against the party drawing the
check.

(B) [This] THE charge shall be in addition toSERVICE UNDER THIS SECTION
any other penalty prescribed by law.

7–301.

(1) [When] IF(d) a person pays court costs or a fine with a check in any motor
vehicle, criminal, or civil case in the District Court, and the check is returned to the court
by the financial institution on which it is drawn because of insufficient funds in the account,
[then]or because the account has been closed or never existed, the court may impose
[additional costs] [$10] $30of against the party issuing the check.A SERVICE CHARGE

(2) [These costs] THE SERVICE CHARGE UNDER THIS SUBSECTION
[now]shall be in addition to any other penalty prescribed by law.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 664 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 2 –