PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 41

Chapter 41

(House Bill 19)

AN ACT concerning

State Board of Examiners of Psychologists – License and Registration Issuance
and Renewals – Electronic Means

FOR the purpose of requiring the State Board of Examiners of Psychologists to issue
electronic licenses and ~~certificates~~ registrations, except under certain circumstances;
repealing the requirement that the Board include certain information on each license
and registration; altering the circumstances under which the Board is required to
send renewal notices by first–class mail; and generally relating to the State Board of
Examiners of Psychologists.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health Occupations
Section 18–306 and 18–309
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health Occupations

18–306.

(1) EXCEPT (2)(a) ~~The~~ AS PROVIDED FOR IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, [a]Board shall issue license or registration to anyTHE AN ELECTRONIC
applicant who meets the requirements of this title.

(2) ON APPLICANT, BOARDSPECIFIC REQUEST OF AN THE SHALL
PRINT FROM ITS WEBSITE A PAPER COPY OF THE VERIFICATION OF LICENSURE OR
FIRST–CLASSREGISTRATION AND SEND IT BY MAIL TO THE ADDRESS ON THE
REGISTRATION.APPLICATION FOR THE LICENSE OR

[(b) The Board shall include on each license or registration that the Board issues:

(1) The full name of the licensee or registrant;

(2) The dates of issuance and expiration;

(3) A serial number:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 41 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) The signatures of the chairman and the vice chairman of the Board; and

Board.](5) The seal of the

[(c)] (B) (1) On receipt of the criminal history record information of an
applicant for licensure or registration forwarded to the Board in accordance with § 18–302.1
of this subtitle, in determining whether to grant a license or registration, the Board shall
consider:

(i) The age at which the crime was committed;

(ii) The circumstances surrounding the crime;

(iii) The length of time that has passed since the crime;

(iv) Subsequent work history;

(v) Employment and character references; and

(vi) Other evidence that demonstrates whether the applicant poses a
threat to the public health or safety.

(2) The Board may not issue a license or registration if the criminal history
record information required under § 18–302.1 of this subtitle has not been received.

18–309.

(a) (1) A license or registration expires on the date set by the Board, unless it
is renewed for an additional term as provided in this section.

(2) A license or registration may not be renewed for a term longer than 2
years.

(b) (1) (i) At least 90 days before a license expires, the Board shall send a
licensee[:renewal notice to the

1. By first–class mail to the last known address of the
licensee; or

licensee,]2. If requested by the by electronic means to the
last known electronic mail address of the licensee.

[under(ii) If a renewal notice sent by electronic means
paragraph]subparagraph (i)2 of this is returned to the Board as undeliverable, OR ON

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 41

LICENSEE, the Board shall send a renewal notice to theSPECIFIC REQUEST BY THE
licensee by first–class mail to the last known address of the licensee.

(I)(2) At least 90 days before a registration expires, the Board shall
registrant[:send a renewal notice to the

(i) By first–class mail to the last known address of the
registrant; or

By](ii) electronic means to the last known electronic mailBY
address of the registrant.

(II) IF A RENEWAL NOTICE SENT BY ELECTRONIC MEANS IS
BOARD UNDELIVERABLE,RETURNED TO THE AS OR ON SPECIFIC REQUEST BY THE
REGISTRANT, BOARDTHE SHALL SEND A RENEWAL NOTICE TO THE REGISTRANT BY
FIRST–CLASS REGISTRANT.MAIL TO THE LAST KNOWN ADDRESS OF THE

(c) The renewal notice sent under subsection (b) of this section shall state:

(1) The date on which the current license or registration expires;

(2) The date by which the renewal application must be received by the
Board for the renewal to be issued and mailed before the license or registration expires;
and

(3) The amount of the renewal fee.

(d) Each licensee or registrant shall notify the Board in writing of any change in
the licensee’s or registrant’s address or electronic mail address within 30 days after the
change occurs.

(e) Before the license or registration expires, the licensee or registrant
periodically may renew it for an additional 2–year term, if the licensee or registrant:

(1) Otherwise is entitled to be licensed or registered;

(2) Pays to the Board a renewal fee set by the Board; and

(3) Submits to the Board:

(i) A renewal application on the form that the Board requires; and

(ii) Satisfactory evidence of compliance with any continuing
education requirements set under this section for license or registration renewal.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 41 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(f) (1) The Board may establish continuing education requirements as a
condition to the renewal of licenses or registrations under this section.

(2) The requirements established under this subsection shall be set by the
Board as to the amount and type of study required.

(g) The Board shall renew the license or registration of each licensee or registrant
who meets the requirements of this section.

(h) (1) (i) Beginning March 2019, the Board shall begin a process requiring
criminal history records checks in accordance with § 18–302.1 of this subtitle on:

1. Selected annual renewal applicants as determined by
regulations adopted by the Board; and

2. Each former licensee or registrant who files for
reinstatement under § 18–310 of this subtitle after failing to renew the license or
registration for a period of 1 year or more.

(ii) An additional criminal history records check shall be performed:

1. 6 years after a renewal applicant submitted to a criminal
history records check under § 18–302(e) of this subtitle; and

2. Every 6 years after a renewal applicant was required to
submit to a criminal history records check under subparagraph (i)1 of this paragraph.

(2) On receipt of the criminal history record information of a licensee
forwarded to the Board in accordance with § 18–302.1 of this subtitle, in determining
whether to renew a license or registration, the Board shall consider:

(i) The age at which the crime was committed;

(ii) The circumstances surrounding the crime;

(iii) The length of time that has passed since the crime;

(iv) Subsequent work history;

(v) Employment and character references; and

(vi) Other evidence that demonstrates whether the licensee poses a
threat to the public health or safety.

(3) The Board may not renew a license or registration if the criminal
history record information required under § 18–302.1 of this subtitle has not been received.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 41

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 5 –