PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 186

Chapter 186

(House Bill 98)

AN ACT concerning

Condominiums – ~~Declarations~~ ~~and~~ Mandatory Insurance Coverage – Alterations

FOR the purpose of ~~exempting~~ ~~certain~~ ~~condominium~~ ~~units~~ ~~from~~ ~~a~~ ~~requirement~~ ~~to~~ ~~include~~
~~certain~~ ~~information~~ ~~in~~ ~~a~~ ~~declaration;~~ altering the types of elements and units for
which a council of unit owners is required to maintain certain property insurance
and altering certain requirements for the property insurance policy; requiring
owners of detached units to carry homeowners insurance on the entirety of the unit;
and generally relating to mandatory insurance coverage for condominiums.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Real Property
Section ~~11–103(a)(4)~~ ~~and~~ 11–114
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Real Property

~~11–103.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~The~~ ~~declaration~~ ~~shall~~ ~~express~~ ~~at~~ ~~least~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~particulars:~~

~~(4)~~ ~~(i)~~ ~~A~~ ~~general~~ ~~description~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~common~~ ~~elements~~ ~~together~~ ~~with~~ ~~a~~
~~designation~~ ~~of~~ ~~those~~ ~~portions~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~common~~ ~~elements~~ ~~that~~ ~~are~~ ~~limited~~ ~~common~~ ~~elements~~
~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~unit~~ ~~to~~ ~~which~~ ~~the~~ ~~use~~ ~~of~~ ~~each~~ ~~is~~ ~~restricted~~ ~~initially.~~

~~(ii)~~ ~~1.~~ ~~A.~~ ~~This~~ ~~subparagraph~~ ~~applies~~ ~~to~~ ~~any~~ ~~condominium~~ ~~for~~
~~which~~ ~~a~~ ~~declaration,~~ ~~bylaws,~~ ~~and~~ ~~plat~~ ~~are~~ ~~recorded~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~land~~ ~~records~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~county~~ ~~where~~
~~the~~ ~~property~~ ~~is~~ ~~located~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~after~~ ~~October~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2010.~~

~~B.~~ ~~This~~ ~~subparagraph~~ ~~does~~ ~~not~~ ~~apply~~ ~~to~~ ~~A~~ ~~DETACHED~~
~~a~~ ~~condominium~~ ~~that~~ ~~is~~ ~~occupied~~ ~~and~~ ~~used~~ ~~solely~~ ~~for~~~~CONDOMINIUM~~ ~~UNIT~~ ~~OR~~
~~nonresidential~~ ~~purposes.~~

~~2.~~ ~~The~~ ~~description~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~common~~ ~~elements~~ ~~shall~~ ~~include~~ ~~the~~
~~following~~ ~~improvements~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~extent~~ ~~that~~ ~~the~~ ~~improvements~~ ~~are~~ ~~shared~~ ~~by~~ ~~or~~ ~~serve~~ ~~more~~
~~than~~ ~~one~~ ~~unit~~ ~~or~~ ~~serve~~ ~~any~~ ~~portion~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~common~~ ~~elements:~~

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 186 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~A.~~ ~~Roofs;~~

~~B.~~ ~~Foundations;~~

~~C.~~ ~~External~~ ~~and~~ ~~supporting~~ ~~walls;~~

~~D.~~ ~~Mechanical,~~ ~~electrical,~~ ~~and~~ ~~plumbing~~ ~~systems;~~ ~~and~~

~~E.~~ ~~Other~~ ~~structural~~ ~~elements.~~

~~3.~~ ~~With~~ ~~the~~ ~~exception~~ ~~of~~ ~~corrective~~ ~~amendments~~ ~~necessary~~ ~~to~~
~~comply~~ ~~with~~ ~~subsubparagraph~~ ~~2~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subparagraph,~~ ~~the~~ ~~description~~ ~~and~~ ~~designation~~ ~~of~~
~~the~~ ~~common~~ ~~elements~~ ~~required~~ ~~under~~ ~~subsubparagraph~~ ~~2~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subparagraph~~ ~~may~~ ~~not~~ ~~be~~
~~amended~~ ~~until~~ ~~after~~ ~~the~~ ~~date~~ ~~on~~ ~~which~~ ~~the~~ ~~unit~~ ~~owners,~~ ~~other~~ ~~than~~ ~~the~~ ~~developer~~ ~~and~~ ~~its~~
~~affiliates,~~ ~~first~~ ~~elect~~ ~~a~~ ~~controlling~~ ~~majority~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~members~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~board~~ ~~of~~ ~~directors~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~
~~council~~ ~~of~~ ~~unit~~ ~~owners.~~

11–114.

(a) Commencing not later than the time of the first conveyance of a unit to a
person other than the developer, the council of unit owners shall maintain, to the extent
reasonably available:

[on(1) Property insurance the common elements and units, exclusive of
improvements and betterments installed in units by unit owners other than the developer,
against,]insuring against those risks of direct physical loss commonly insured AGAINST
in amountsRISKS OF DIRECT PHYSICAL LOSS COMMONLY INSURED AGAINST
owners,determined by the council of unit but not less than any amounts specified in the
bylaws,declaration or ~~AGAINST~~ ~~RISKS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~DIRECT~~ ~~PHYSICAL~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~COMMONLY~~
~~AGAINST:~~~~INSURED~~

(I) FOR UNITS,ATTACHED OR MULTIFAMILY DWELLING ON THE
UNITS,COMMON ELEMENTS AND EXCLUSIVE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND
BETTERMENTS INSTALLED IN UNITS BY UNIT OWNERS OTHER THAN THE
DEVELOPER; AND

(II) FOR UNITS, ELEMENTS; andDETACHED ON THE COMMON

(2) Comprehensive general liability insurance, including medical
payments insurance, in an amount determined by the council of unit owners, but not less
than any amount specified in the declaration or bylaws, covering occurrences commonly
insured against for death, bodily injury, and property damage arising out of or in connection
with the use, ownership, or maintenance of the common elements.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 186

(b) The council of unit owners shall give notice to all unit owners of the
termination of any insurance policy within 10 days of termination. The declaration or
bylaws may require the council of unit owners to carry any other insurance, and the council
of unit owners in any event may carry any other insurance it deems appropriate to protect
the council of unit owners or the unit owners.

(c) Insurance policies carried pursuant to subsection (a) of this section shall
provide that:

(1) ~~For~~ ~~property~~ ~~and~~ ~~casualty~~ ~~losses~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~common~~ ~~elements~~ ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~units,~~
~~exclusive~~ ~~of~~ ~~improvements~~ ~~and~~ ~~betterments~~ ~~installed~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~units~~ ~~by~~ ~~unit~~ ~~owners~~ ~~other~~ ~~than~~
~~UNITS,~~~~the~~ ~~developer,~~ ~~OR~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~DETACHED~~ ~~PROPERTY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~CASUALTY~~ ~~LOSSES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~
~~ELEMENTS,~~ SUBJECT~~COMMON~~ TO THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE SPECIFIED UNDER
(A)(1) SECTION, each unit owner is an insured person under theSUBSECTION OF THIS
OWNER’Spolicy with respect to liability arising out of ~~his~~ ownership of anTHE UNIT
undivided interest in the common elements or membership in the council of unit owners
UNITS,FOR PROPERTY AND CASUALTY LOSSES TO THE COMMON ELEMENTS AND THE
EXCLUSIVE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND BETTERMENTS INSTALLED IN THE UNITS BY
DEVELOPER;UNIT OWNERS OTHER THAN THE

(2) The insurer waives its right to subrogation under the policy against any
unit owner of the condominium or members of his household;

(3) An act or omission by any unit owner, unless acting within the scope of
his authority on behalf of the council of unit owners, does not void the policy and is not a
condition to recovery under the policy; and

(4) If, at the time of a loss under the policy, there is other insurance in the
name of a unit owner covering the same property covered by the policy, the policy is primary
insurance not contributing with the other insurance.

(1)(d) ~~Any~~ ~~loss~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ATTACHED~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MULTIFAMILY~~ ~~DWELLING~~ ~~UNITS~~
SUBJECT (A)(1)TO THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE SPECIFIED UNDER SUBSECTION OF
SECTION, covered by the property policy ~~under~~ ~~subsection~~ ~~(a)(1)~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~THIS ANY LOSS
~~section~~ shall be adjusted with the council of unit owners, but the insurance proceeds for
that loss shall be payable to any insurance trustee designated for that purpose, or otherwise
to the council of unit owners, and not to any mortgagee.

(2) The insurance trustee or the council of unit owners shall hold any
insurance proceeds in trust for unit owners and lien holders as their interests may appear.

(3) (I) Subject to the provisions of subsection (g) of this section, the
proceeds shall be disbursed first for the repair or restoration of the damaged common
and,elements FOR CONDOMINIUMS WITH ATTACHED OR MULTIFAMILY UNITS THAT

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 186 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

UNITS,MUST MAINTAIN A PROPERTY INSURANCE POLICY ON THE THE DAMAGED
~~unit.~~units, ~~and~~

(II) UNIT owners and lien holders are not entitled to receive payment
~~there:~~of any portion of the proceeds unless

1. THERE is a surplus of proceeds after the common
and,elements FOR CONDOMINIUMS WITH ATTACHED OR MULTIFAMILY UNITS THAT
UNITS, units have beenMUST MAINTAIN A PROPERTY INSURANCE POLICY ON THE THE
~~the;~~completely repaired or restored, ~~or~~ OR

2. THE condominium is terminated.

(1)(e) An insurance policy issued to the council of unit owners does not
prevent a unit owner from obtaining insurance for his own benefit.

(2) AN RESIDENTIAL,OWNER OF A DETACHED UNIT SHALL CARRY
UNIT.HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE COVERAGE ON THE ENTIRETY OF THE

(f) (1) An insurer that has issued an insurance policy under this section shall
issue certificates or memoranda of insurance to the council of unit owners and, upon
request, to any unit owner, mortgagee, or beneficiary under a deed of trust.

(2) An insurer may cancel an insurance policy issued under this section in
accordance with § 27–603 of the Insurance Article.

[Any] SUBJECT(g) (1) TO THE APPLICABLE COVERAGE SPECIFIED
~~(A)~~ (A)(1) SECTION, portion of the common elementsUNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS ANY
and the units, exclusive of improvements and betterments installed in the units by unit
owners other than the developer, damaged or destroyed shall be repaired or replaced
promptly by the council of unit owners unless:

(i) The condominium is terminated;

(ii) Repair or replacement would be illegal under any State or local
health or safety statute or ordinance; or

(iii) 80 percent of the unit owners, including every owner of a unit or
assigned limited common element which will not be rebuilt, vote not to rebuild.

(2) (i) 1. The cost of repair or replacement in excess of insurance
proceeds and reserves is a common expense.

2. A property insurance deductible is not a cost of repair or
replacement in excess of insurance proceeds.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 186

(ii) If the cause of any damage to or destruction of any portion of the
condominium originates from the common elements or an event outside of the condominium
units and common elements, the council of unit owners’ property insurance deductible is a
common expense.

(iii) 1. If the cause of any damage to or destruction of any portion
of the condominium originates from a unit, the owner of the unit where the cause of the
damage or destruction originated is responsible for the council of unit owners’ property
insurance deductible not to exceed $10,000.

2. The council of unit owners shall inform each unit owner
annually in writing of:

A. The unit owner’s responsibility for the council of unit
owners’ property insurance deductible; and

B. The amount of the deductible.

3. The council of unit owners’ property insurance deductible
amount exceeding the $10,000 responsibility of the unit owner is a common expense.

(iv) In the same manner as provided under § 11–110 of this title, the
council of unit owners may make an annual assessment against the unit owner responsible
under subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph.

(3) If the damaged or destroyed portion of the condominium is not repaired
or replaced:

(i) The insurance proceeds attributable to the damaged common
elements shall be used to restore the damaged area to a condition compatible with the
remainder of the condominium;

(ii) The insurance proceeds attributable to units and limited
common elements which are not rebuilt shall be distributed to the owners of those units
and the owners of the units to which those limited common elements were assigned; and

(iii) The remainder of the proceeds shall be distributed to all the unit
owners in proportion to their percentage interest in the common elements.

(I)(4) If the unit owners vote not to rebuild any unit, that unit’s entire
common element interest, votes in the council of unit owners, and common expense liability
are automatically reallocated upon the vote as if the unit had been condemned under §
11–112 of this title, and the council of unit owners promptly shall prepare, execute, and
record an amendment to the declaration reflecting the reallocations.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 186 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, § 11–123 of
this title governs the distribution of insurance proceeds if the condominium is terminated.

(h) The council of unit owners shall maintain and make available for inspection a
copy of all insurance policies maintained by the council of unit owners.

(i) The provisions of this section do not apply to a condominium all of whose units
are intended for nonresidential use.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 6 –