PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 512

Chapter 512

(House Bill 12)

AN ACT concerning

Equitable and Inclusive Transit–Oriented Development Enhancement Act

FOR the purpose of repealing the authority of the Secretary of Transportation to designate
a transit–oriented development; establishing the Transit–Oriented Development
Capital Grant and Revolving Loan Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; requiring
interest earnings of the Fund to be credited to the Fund; authorizing the Department
of Transportation to use the Fund to provide financial assistance to local jurisdictions
to be used for certain purposes within a transit–oriented development; and generally
relating to transit–oriented development in the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 7–101(a), ~~(l),~~ ~~(m),~~ ~~and~~ ~~(o)~~
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Transportation~~
~~Section~~ ~~7–102(a)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2020~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2022~~ ~~Supplement)~~

BY adding to
Article – Transportation
Section 7–101(l) and 7–103; and 7–1201 through 7–1205 to be under the new subtitle
“Subtitle 12. Transit–Oriented Development Capital Grant and Revolving
Loan Fund”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 7–101(l) through (p) and 7–102(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i) and 10–306(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 512 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171. and 10–306(c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Transportation

7–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(L) (1) “TRANSIT CORRIDOR” MEANS A GEOGRAPHICALLY BOUND SET OF
SUBWAY, RAIL, TRANSIT,TWO OR MORE CONTIGUOUS LIGHT BUS RAPID OR BUS
STATIONS.TRANSIT

(2) “TRANSIT CORRIDOR” INCLUDES A GEOGRAPHICALLY BOUND SET
FIXED–ROUTEOF TWO OR MORE CONTIGUOUS BUS TRANSIT STATIONS THAT HAVE
BUSES.BUS SERVICE THAT OPERATES ON A ROADWAY DEDICATED TO

(M)~~(l)~~ “Transit facility” includes any one or more or combination of tracks,
rights–of–way, bridges, tunnels, subways, rolling stock, stations, terminals, ports, parking
areas, equipment, fixtures, buildings, structures, other real or personal property, and
services incidental to or useful or designed for use in connection with the rendering of
transit service by any means, including rail, bus, motor vehicle, or other mode of
transportation, but does not include any railroad facility.

(N)~~(m)~~ “Transit–oriented development” means a mix of private or public
parking facilities, commercial and residential structures, and uses, improvements, and
facilities customarily appurtenant to such facilities and uses, that:

(1) Is part of a deliberate development plan or strategy involving:

(i) Property that is adjacent to the passenger boarding and alighting
location of a planned or existing transit station; ~~or~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 512

(ii) Property, any part of which is located within one–half mile of the
station;passenger boarding and alighting location of a planned or existing transit OR

(III) PROPERTY THAT IS ADJACENT TO A PLANNED OR EXISTING
CORRIDOR;TRANSIT

(2) Is planned to maximize the use of transit, walking, and bicycling by
residents and employees; and

(3) Is designated as a transit–oriented development by:

(i) The ~~Secretary,~~ ~~after~~ ~~considering~~ ~~a~~ ~~recommendation~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ Smart
Growth Subcabinet established under § 9–1406 of the State Government Article; and

(ii) The local government or multicounty agency with land use and
planning responsibility for the relevant area DESIGNATION.APPLYING FOR

[(n)] (O) (1) “Transit service” means the transportation of persons and their
packages and baggage and of newspapers, express, and mail in regular route, special, or
charter service by means of transit facilities between points within the District.

(2) “Transit service” does not include any:

(i) Vanpool operation; or

(ii) Railroad service.

(P)~~(o)~~ (1) “Transit station” means any facility, the primary function of
which relates to the boarding and alighting of passengers from transit vehicles.

(2) “Transit station” includes platforms, shelters, passenger waiting
facilities, parking areas, access roadways, and other real property used to facilitate
passenger access to transit service or railroad service.

[(p)] (Q) “Transit vehicle” means a mobile device used in rendering transit
service.

7–102.

(I)(a) (1) The development of improved and expanded railroad facilities,
railroad services, transit facilities, and transit services operating as a unified and
coordinated regional transportation system, and the realization of transit–oriented
development throughout the State, represent transportation purposes that are essential for
the satisfactory movement of people and goods, the alleviation of present and future traffic

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 512 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

congestion, the economic welfare and vitality, and the development of the metropolitan area
of Baltimore and other political subdivisions of the State.

(II) IN TRANSIT–ORIENTEDORDER TO REALIZE DEVELOPMENT
PURPOSE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYAS A TRANSPORTATION IT IS THE INTENT OF THE
DEPARTMENTTHAT THE MAKE ALL REASONABLE ATTEMPTS TO INCLUDE
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT AS PART OF THE PREFERRED PLAN FOR
DEVELOPMENT IN AREAS SERVED BY TRANSIT SERVICES BY PROVIDING
WHEN:PREFERENCE TO PROPOSALS THAT FURTHER THIS PURPOSE

1. DISTRIBUTING FROM:FUNDS

A. STATE PROGRAMS OFFERING GRANTS AND LOANS
INVESTMENT,FOR DEVELOPMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE INCLUDING THE
COMPLETE STREETS PROGRAM TITLE 8, SUBTITLE 9ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS
ARTICLE;

B. ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~DEVELOPMENT~~ ~~BLOCK~~
ELIGIBLE FUNDING;~~GRANTS~~ FEDERAL AND

C. THE PROCEEDS OF GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND AND
ISSUANCES;GRANT ANTICIPATION REVENUE VEHICLE AND

2. AWARDING STATE CREDITS.TAX

(III) 1. ~~AN~~ EXCEPT 3AS PROVIDED IN SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF
SUBPARAGRAPH, TRANSIT–ORIENTEDTHIS AN AREA DESIGNATED AS
JULY 1, 2023,DEVELOPMENT AFTER SHALL RETAIN THAT DESIGNATION FOR A
10 YEARS.PERIOD OF

2. BEFORE 10–YEARTHE END OF A DESIGNATION
SUBPARAGRAPH,PERIOD UNDER THIS A LOCAL GOVERNMENT OR MULTICOUNTY
SMART GROWTH SUBCABINETAGENCY MAY APPLY TO THE TO HAVE THE
10 YEARS.DESIGNATION EXTENDED FOR AN ADDITIONAL

3. AN TRANSIT–ORIENTEDAREA DESIGNATED AS A
DEVELOPMENT THAT IS SUBJECT TO A GROUND LEASE OR OTHER AGREEMENT WITH
STATETHE SHALL RETAIN THAT DESIGNATION FOR THE DURATION OF THE GROUND
AGREEMENT.LEASE OR OTHER

(2) The establishment of the realization of transit–oriented development as
a transportation purpose under paragraph (1) of this subsection may not be construed to:

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 512

(i) Limit the authority of local governments to govern land use as
established under any other law; or

(ii) Grant the State or a department of the State additional authority
to supersede local land use and planning authority.

7–103.

(A) ON NOVEMBER 30, 2024, NOVEMBEROR BEFORE AND ON OR BEFORE
30 THEREAFTER, SECRETARYEACH YEAR THE SHALL SUBMIT A REPORT TO THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTIN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE TRANSIT–ORIENTEDON EFFORTS TO INCREASE DEVELOPMENT
STATE.THROUGHOUT THE

(B) THE REPORT SHALL INCLUDE AN ANALYSIS OF THE FOLLOWING ISSUES
TRANSIT–ORIENTED STATE:FOR EACH DEVELOPMENT IN THE

(1) THE DEMOGRAPHIC AND SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS PRESENT
TRANSIT–ORIENTED AREAS;IN THE DEVELOPMENT AND THE SURROUNDING

(2) DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY OCCURRING IN THE
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT DURING THE PERIOD THAT THE REPORT
COVERS; AND

(3) TRANSIT STATION UTILIZATION RATES FOR THE
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT.

(C) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL CONSIDER THE FINDINGS OF THE REPORT
REQUIRED UNDER THIS SECTION FOR PURPOSES OF UPDATING THE SCORING
STANDARDS FOR APPLICATIONS FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL GRANT REVOLVING LOANAND
FUND SUBTITLE 12 TITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

SUBTITLE 12. TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL GRANT AND
REVOLVING LOAN FUND.

7–1201.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE” FUND.MEANS A GRANT OR LOAN FROM THE

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 512 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) “FUND” TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT CAPITALMEANS THE
GRANT REVOLVING LOAN FUND.AND

(D) “GAP FUNDING” MEANS FUNDING PROVIDED TO COMPENSATE FOR A
SHORTFALL BETWEEN THE EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT COSTS OF A PROJECT AND
PROJECT.THE AVAILABLE FUNDS FOR THE

(E) “LOCAL JURISDICTION” MEANS A COUNTY OR A MUNICIPAL
CORPORATION.

(F) “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION” §MEANS A MUNICIPALITY AS DEFINED IN
1–101 LOCAL GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.OF THE

7–1202.

(A) THERE TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL GRANTIS A AND
REVOLVING LOAN FUND.

(B) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT SUBJECT TO
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.OF THE AND

7–1203.

(A) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROMOTE THE EQUITABLE AND
TRANSIT–ORIENTEDINCLUSIVE DEVELOPMENT OF DEVELOPMENTS THROUGHOUT
STATE.THE

(B) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE AND THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(C) (1) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(I) MONEY STATEAPPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE
FUND;

(II) MONEY MADE AVAILABLE FOR QUALIFYING USES BY THE
FUND SOURCES,FROM OTHER GOVERNMENTAL INCLUDING ~~COMMUNITY~~
~~DEVELOPMENT~~ ~~BLOCK~~ ~~GRANTS~~ ELIGIBLE FEDERAL FUNDING AND THE
TRANSPORTATION TRUST FUND;

(III) GROUND RENTS OR LAND SALE PROCEEDS IN ACCORDANCE
§ 10–306(C)(2) STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE;WITH OF THE AND

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 512

(IV) PAYMENTS OF PRINCIPAL OF AND INTEREST ON LOANS
TITLE;MADE UNDER THIS

(V) INVESTMENT FUND;EARNINGS OF THE AND

(VI) ANY SOURCE,OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER PUBLIC OR
PRIVATE, FUND.ACCEPTED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE

(2) CONTRIBUTIONS FUND (1)(III)TO THE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF
SHALL:THIS SUBSECTION

(I) BE FUND;SEPARATELY ACCOUNTED FOR IN THE AND

(II) BE TRANSIT–ORIENTEDUSED ONLY FOR THE BENEFIT OF
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE SAME COUNTY WHERE THE REAL PROPERTY SUBJECT TO
LOCATED.THE GROUND RENT OR LAND SALE IS

(D) FOR YEAR, GOVERNOREACH FISCAL THE SHALL INCLUDE IN THE
FUNDANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION SUFFICIENT TO ENSURE A
~~$10,000,000~~ $5,000,000 YEAR.BALANCE OF AT LEAST AT THE START OF THE FISCAL

7–1204.

(A) (1) THE FUND DEPARTMENTMAY BE USED BY THE TO PROVIDE
FOR:FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL JURISDICTIONS

(I) DESIGN TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT,PLANS FOR A
TRANSIT–ORIENTEDPROVIDED THAT THE DEVELOPMENT WILL BE DESIGNED TO
DEPARTMENT;MEET EQUITY GOALS ESTABLISHED BY THE

(II) PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN A
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT; OR

(III) GAP FUNDING FOR PUBLIC OR PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT.WITHIN A

(2) A ENTITY, ENTITY,PRIVATE INCLUDING A NONPROFIT
TRANSIT–ORIENTEDPARTICIPATING IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF A DEVELOPMENT
MAY PARTNER WITH A LOCAL JURISDICTION TO SUBMIT AN APPLICATION FOR
(1)(III) SUBSECTION.FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(B) (1) THE SMART GROWTH SUBCABINET §ESTABLISHED UNDER
9–1406 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLEOF THE SHALL ESTABLISH ELIGIBILITY

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 512 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

REQUIREMENTS AND OBJECTIVE SCORING STANDARDS FOR THE REVIEW OF
ASSISTANCE.APPLICATIONS FOR FINANCIAL

(2) THE SMART GROWTH SUBCABINET §ESTABLISHED UNDER
9–1406 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE ESTABLISH:OF THE MAY

(I) DIFFERENT ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND OBJECTIVE
ASSISTANCE;SCORING STANDARDS FOR DIFFERENT TYPES OF FINANCIAL AND

(II) SCORING PREFERENCES FOR APPLICATIONS THAT
WILL:DEMONSTRATE THAT THE PROPOSED PROJECT

1. ENHANCE LOW–INCOMEACCESS TO TRANSIT FOR
JURISDICTION;AND MINORITY RESIDENTS OF THE LOCAL

2. ENHANCE ACCESS TO TRANSIT IN AREAS WITH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND A DIVERSITY OF JOB AND EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES; OR

3. ENCOURAGE DEVELOPMENT AROUND
UNDERDEVELOPED AND UNDERUTILIZED TRANSIT STATIONS IN
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENTS.

~~(B)~~ (C) ~~(1)~~ THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

~~(I)~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~ ~~ELIGIBILITY~~ ~~REQUIREMENTS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~SCORING~~
~~ASSISTANCE;~~~~STANDARDS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REVIEW~~ ~~OF~~ ~~APPLICATIONS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~FINANCIAL~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ (1) PUBLISH THE ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS AND
DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE;SCORING STANDARDS ON THE AND

(2) IN DEPARTMENT HOUSINGCOLLABORATION WITH THE OF AND
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, FUNDSUPPORT RECIPIENTS OF AWARDS FROM THE
STUDIES, PLANS,BY SUPPORTING ANY AND CODE CHANGES WITH TECHNICAL
SERVICES.

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~ESTABLISH:~~~~MAY~~

~~(I)~~ ~~DIFFERENT~~ ~~ELIGIBILITY~~ ~~REQUIREMENTS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~SCORING~~
~~ASSISTANCE;~~~~STANDARDS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~DIFFERENT~~ ~~TYPES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FINANCIAL~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~SCORING~~ ~~PREFERENCES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~APPLICATIONS~~ ~~THAT~~
~~WILL:~~~~DEMONSTRATE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROPOSED~~ ~~PROJECT~~

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 512

~~1.~~ ~~ENHANCE~~ ~~LOW–INCOME~~~~ACCESS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~TRANSIT~~ ~~FOR~~
~~JURISDICTION;~~~~AND~~ ~~MINORITY~~ ~~RESIDENTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOCAL~~

~~2.~~ ~~ENHANCE~~ ~~ACCESS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~TRANSIT~~ ~~IN~~ ~~AREAS~~ ~~WITH~~
~~AFFORDABLE~~ ~~HOUSING~~ ~~AND~~ ~~A~~ ~~DIVERSITY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~JOB~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EDUCATIONAL~~
~~OPPORTUNITIES;~~ ~~OR~~

~~3.~~ ~~ENCOURAGE~~ ~~DEVELOPMENT~~ ~~AROUND~~
~~UNDERDEVELOPED~~ ~~AND~~ ~~UNDERUTILIZED~~ ~~TRANSIT~~ ~~STATIONS~~ ~~IN~~
~~TRANSIT–ORIENTED~~ ~~DEVELOPMENTS.~~

~~(C)~~ (D) AN INCLUDE:APPLICATION FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE SHALL

(1) COMMITMENTS TO:FROM THE LOCAL JURISDICTION

(I) ESTABLISH TRANSIT–SUPPORTIVE LAND USE
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT;DESIGNATIONS FOR REAL PROPERTY WITHIN A
AND

(II) IMPLEMENT, PRACTICABLE,WHERE IMPROVEMENTS TO
TRANSIT–ORIENTEDTHE DEVELOPMENT THAT PROMOTE THE COMPLETE STREETS
§ 2–112 ARTICLE;POLICY ADOPTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

(2) IF A PRIVATE ENTITY PARTNERS WITH A LOCAL JURISDICTION TO
ASSISTANCE,SUBMIT AN APPLICATION FOR FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS FROM KEY
TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT;STAKEHOLDERS TO DEVELOP THE AND

(3) IF THE APPLICATION IS FOR A GRANT TO SUPPORT THE DESIGN
TRANSIT–ORIENTEDOR CONSTRUCTION OF A PROPOSED ENHANCEMENT TO A
DEVELOPMENT, CREDIBLE FUNDING STRATEGIES THAT DEMONSTRATE FULL
FUNDING OF THE DESIGN OR CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR THE PROPOSED
GRANT.ENHANCEMENT ON AWARD OF THE

7–1205.

(A) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE IN
STATE INVESTED.THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(B) ANY FUNDINVESTMENT EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE PAID INTO THE
FUND.

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 512 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

Fund;171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair AND

172. TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT CAPITALTHE
GRANT REVOLVING LOAN FUND.AND

10–306.

(a) In this section, “capital asset” means an asset of a substantial permanent
nature.

(c) (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, if cash
is received as consideration for the disposition of a capital asset of the State or any unit of
the State government, the cash shall be applied to the State Annuity Bond Fund Account
for the payment of the principal of and interest on the bonded indebtedness of the State.

(2) If the capital asset is real property that is being leased or sold to a
private party for the purpose of realizing a transit–oriented development as defined under
§ 7–101 of the Transportation Article, at the discretion of the State agency that is disposing
of the property, all or a portion of the cash proceeds resulting from the transaction shall be
in:deposited

(I) the Baltimore City Community Enhancement Transit–Oriented
Development Fund established under Title 15 of the Economic Development Article for the
Fund;purposes of that OR

(II) TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT CAPITAL GRANTTHE
REVOLVING LOAN FUND TITLE 7AND ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
TRANSPORTATION ARTICLE FUND.FOR THE PURPOSES OF THAT

(3) (i) If cash is received as consideration for the disposition of a capital
asset, and if the capital asset was originally purchased with special funds, the cash shall
be applied to the special fund.

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 512

(ii) Notwithstanding subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, cash
received as consideration for the disposition of helicopters, auxiliary helicopter equipment,
ground support equipment, or other capital equipment related to helicopters shall be
applied to the State Annuity Bond Fund Account for the payment of the principal of and
interest on the bonded indebtedness of the State.

(4) If cash is received as consideration for the disposition of any real or
personal property of the State or any unit of the State government, other than a capital
asset, the cash shall be accounted for and paid into the State Treasury.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 11 –