PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 744

Chapter 744

(House Bill 13)

AN ACT concerning

Hate Crimes – Civil Remedy

FOR the purpose of providing that a person who is the victim of an act that would constitute
a violation of certain hate crime laws may bring a civil action against a certain
person; and generally relating to the right to file a civil action for a hate crime.

BY adding to
Article – Criminal Law
Section 10–309
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Criminal Law

10–309.

(A) A PERSON WHO IS THE VICTIM OF AN ACT THAT WOULD CONSTITUTE A
VIOLATION OF THIS SUBTITLE MAY BRING A CIVIL ACTION AGAINST THE PERSON OR
JURISDICTION.PERSONS WHO COMMITTED THE ACT IN A COURT OF COMPETENT

(B) THE MAY:COURT

(1) ISSUE AN INJUNCTION TO PREVENT OR RESTRAIN AN ACT THAT
SUBTITLE;WOULD CONSTITUTE A VIOLATION OF THIS AND

(2) (C)AWARD DAMAGES IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION.

(C) (1) DAMAGES AWARDED BY A COURT UNDER THIS SECTION MAY
INCLUDE:

(I) ECONOMIC DAMAGES AND ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS
SUSTAINED BY THE PLAINTIFF THAT WAS PROXIMATELY CAUSED BY THE VIOLATION
SUBTITLE;OF THIS AND

(II) DAMAGES, INCLUDING:NONECONOMIC
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 744 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

1. SUFFERING;PAIN AND

2. (3) SUBSECTION,SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS
DISTRESS;EMOTIONAL

3. (3) SUBSECTION,SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS
ANGUISH;MENTAL

4. ENJOYMENT;LOSS OF

5. COMPANIONSHIP, SERVICES,LOSS OF AND
CONSORTIUM; AND

6. OTHER NONPECUNIARY LOSS SUSTAINED BY THE
PLAINTIFF THAT WAS PROXIMATELY CAUSED BY THE ACT THAT WOULD CONSTITUTE
SUBTITLE.A VIOLATION OF THIS

(2) THE ATTORNEY’SCOURT MAY ALSO AWARD REASONABLE FEES
PLAINTIFF.AND COURT COSTS TO A PREVAILING

(3) NONECONOMIC (1)(II)2 3DAMAGES UNDER PARAGRAPH AND OF
THIS SUBSECTION MAY NOT INCLUDE EMOTIONAL DISTRESS OR MENTAL ANGUISH
CAUSED SOLELY BY THE NEED TO REPLACE OR REPAIR PERSONAL OR REAL
PROPERTY.

(D) DAMAGES (C)(1)AWARDED BY A COURT UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
DAMAGES.SECTION MAY BE EQUAL TO THREE TIMES THE AMOUNT OF ACTUAL

(E) THIS SECTION DOES NOT AFFECT ANY LEGAL OR EQUITABLE RIGHT OR
LAW.REMEDY OTHERWISE PROVIDED BY

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall be construed to
apply only prospectively and may not be applied or interpreted to have any effect on or
application to any cause of action arising before the effective date of this Act.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 2 –