PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 45

Chapter 45

(House Bill 141)

AN ACT concerning

State Government – Commission on LGBTQIA+ Affairs – Alterations

FOR the purpose of renaming the Commission on LGBTQ Affairs to be the Commission on
LGBTQIA+ Affairs; altering the membership of the Commission; altering certain
qualifications for members appointed to the Commission; staggering the terms of
Commission members; altering the duties of the Commission; and generally relating
to the Commission on LGBTQIA+ Affairs.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9.5–101(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9.5–101(b); and 9.5–501 through 9.5–503 and 9.5–507 to be under the
amended subtitle “Subtitle 5. Commission on LGBTQIA+ Affairs”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

9.5–101.

(a) There is a Governor’s Office of Community Initiatives, as authorized under
Executive Order 01.01.2007.25.

(b) The Governor’s Office of Community Initiatives shall include the following
units:

(1) the Governor’s Office on Service and Volunteerism, under Subtitle 2 of
this title;

(2) the Commission on Indian Affairs, under Subtitle 3 of this title;

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+(3) the Commission on Affairs, under Subtitle 5 of
this title; and
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 45 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) any other unit as authorized by law or executive order.

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+Subtitle 5. Commission on Affairs.

9.5–501.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+(b) “Commission” means the Commission on Affairs.

[“LGBTQ”] “LGBTQIA+” [and](c) means lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
QUESTIONING, INTERSEX, ASEXUAL, AGENDER, AROMANTIC,queer OR OR AND
IDENTITIES.ADDITIONAL

9.5–502.

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+There is a Commission on Affairs in the Governor’s Office of
Community Initiatives.

9.5–503.

[15] 21(a) The Commission consists of members appointed by the Governor with
the advice and consent of the Senate.

(b) The members shall:

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+(1) to the extent practicable, be members of the
community;

(2) include at least two transgender individuals;

AGE,(3) to the extent practicable, reflect the gender, GENDER IDENTITY
EXPRESSION, ANCESTRAL, ORIGIN, COLOR, DISABILITY, RELIGIOUS,OR NATIONAL
SEX, ORIENTATION, SOCIOECONOMIC,racial, ethnic, and geographic diversitySEXUAL
of the State;

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+(4) know about issues facing communities and be
[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+sensitive to the problems of communities;

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+(5) be representatives of the State’s communities
[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+or have an interest in the success of communities; and

(6) provide value to the work of the Commission.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 45

(c) (1) The term of a member is 4 years.

(2) THE TERMS OF MEMBERS ARE STAGGERED AS REQUIRED BY THE
COMMISSION OCTOBER 1, 2023.TERMS PROVIDED FOR MEMBERS OF THE ON

[(2)] (3) At the end of a term, a member continues to serve until a
successor is appointed and qualifies.

[(3)] (4) A member who is appointed after a term has begun serves only
for the rest of the term and until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

(d) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a member may
be reappointed.

(2) A member who has served two consecutive 4–year terms may not be
reappointed until at least 1 year has elapsed after the end of the previous term.

(e) The Governor may remove a member for incompetence or misconduct.

(f) A member who fails to attend at least 50% of the regularly scheduled meetings
during a 12–month period shall be considered to have resigned from the Commission.

9.5–507.

The Commission shall:

[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+(1) assess the challenges facing communities;

(2) collect data across State agencies on:

[LGBTQ–inclusive](i) the implementation of policies THAT ARE
LGBTQIA+ IDENTITIES; andINCLUSIVE OF

(ii) complaints alleging discrimination based on sexual orientation
or gender identity;

[LGBTQ](3) study and establish best practices for inclusion of
LGBTQIA+ individuals and communities;

(4) inform the Executive and Legislative branches of State government of
[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+issues concerning ~~women~~ ~~and~~ persons;

[LGBTQ](5) offer testimony on issues concerning ~~women~~ ~~and~~
LGBTQIA+ persons before legislative and administrative bodies;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 45 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(6) act as a clearinghouse for activities to avoid duplication of efforts;

(7) create surveys and appoint advisory committees in the fields of:

(i) education;

(ii) social sciences;

(iii) labor and employment laws and policies;

(iv) law enforcement;

(v) health and safety;

(vi) new and expanded services;

(vii) legal rights;

(viii) family relations;

(ix) human relations; and

(x) volunteer services; and

(8) publish, in accordance with § 2–1257 of this article, an annual report,
and any other material the Commission considers necessary, that includes
[LGBTQ] LGBTQIA+recommendations on policies for adults and youth that work to end
discriminatory practices in the State.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the terms of the initial
members of the Commission on LGBTQIA+ Affairs shall expire as follows:

(1) seven members in 2024;

(2) seven members in 2025; and

(3) seven members in 2026.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 4 –