PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 88

Chapter 88

(House Bill 146)

AN ACT concerning

Howard County – Alcoholic Beverages – Public Hearing

Ho. Co. 13–23

FOR the purpose of exempting applications for changing certain resident agents from the
requirement that the Board of License Commissioners for Howard County hold a
public hearing on the applications; authorizing the Board to hold a public hearing on
certain applications under certain circumstances; and generally relating to alcoholic
beverages in Howard County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 23–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 23–1505
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

23–102.

This title applies only in Howard County.

23–1505.

(a) The applicant shall post a hearing notice for at least 15 days before the hearing
on an application for:

(1) a new license;

(2) a change in the class of a license;

(3) an extension of the licensed premises;
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 88 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(E) SECTION,(4) aEXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS
agent;change of resident

(5) a transfer of a license; or

(6) a transfer of location.

(b) (1) The applicant shall:

(i) post the hearing notice required in subsection (a) of this section
at the location described in the application;

(ii) take a photograph of the hearing notice posted in accordance
with subparagraph (i) of this paragraph; and

(iii) send the photograph of the hearing notice to the Board before the
hearing on the application.

(2) The hearing notice required in subsection (a) of this section shall
include:

(i) the name of the applicant;

(ii) the type of license for which the application is made;

(iii) the location described in the application; and

(iv) the date, time, and place set by the Board for a hearing on the
application.

(c) (1) The Board shall post a hearing notice on the Board’s website for at least
15 days before the hearing on an application.

(2) The hearing notice required in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall
include:

(i) the name of the applicant;

(ii) the type of license for which the application is made;

(iii) the location described in the application; and

(iv) the date, time, and place set by the Board for a hearing on the
application.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 88

(d) (1) The Board shall provide the hearing notice required in subsection (c) of
this section to the Howard County Office of Public Information at least 15 days before the
hearing on an application.

(2) The Howard County Office of Public Information shall post the hearing
notice in the same manner as other public meeting notices.

(E) (1) A HEARING ON AN APPLICATION FOR A CHANGE OF RESIDENT
APPLICANT:AGENT IS NOT REQUIRED IF THE

(I) IS SEEKING TO BE A RESIDENT AGENT FOR THE SAME
HOLDER;LICENSE FOR WHICH THE APPLICANT IS A LICENSE AND

(II) HAS PREVIOUSLY APPEARED AND BEEN APPROVED AT A
BOARD LICENSENONVIOLATION HEARING FOR THE SAME LICENSE BEFORE THE OF
COMMISSIONERS APPOINTED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE HEARING BOARD.OR THE

(2) THE BOARD (1)MAY HOLD A HEARING UNDER PARAGRAPH OF
BOARDTHIS SUBSECTION IF THE DETERMINES THERE IS GOOD CAUSE FOR THE
HEARING.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 3 –