PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 346

Chapter 346

(House Bill 113)

AN ACT concerning

Worcester County – Alcoholic Beverages – Ocean City Promoter’s License

FOR the purpose of establishing an Ocean City promoter’s license in Worcester County;
authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Worcester County to issue the
license to a for–profit organization to sell and serve beer, wine, and liquor at an
entertainment event that is held on certain premises located in the Town of Ocean
City; and generally relating to alcoholic beverage licenses in Worcester County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 33–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 33–1310
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

33–102.

This title applies only in Worcester County.

33–1310.

(A) THERE OCEAN CITY PROMOTER’S LICENSE.IS AN

(B) THE BOARD FOR–PROFITMAY ISSUE THE LICENSE TO A ORGANIZATION
BEER, WINE,TO SELL AND SERVE AND LIQUOR AT AN ENTERTAINMENT EVENT THAT
IS:IS HELD ON A PREMISES THAT

(1) TOWNLOCATED WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE OF
OCEAN CITY;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 346 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) TOWN OCEAN CITY;OWNED BY THE OF AND

(3) ~~MAYOR~~~~DESIGNATED~~ ~~AND~~ APPROVED IN WRITING BY THE ~~AND~~
~~CITY~~ ~~COUNCIL~~ ~~OCEAN~~ ~~CITY~~ OCEAN CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT.~~OF~~

(C) THE BOARD THAT:MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS

(1) RESTRICT THE NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED UNDER THIS
YEAR;SECTION EACH AND

(2) ESTABLISH THE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDUCTING THE SALE AND
BEER, WINE, (B)SERVICE OF AND LIQUOR AT THE EVENT DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION
SECTION,OF THIS INCLUDING HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS TO BE MET BY A
HOLDER.LICENSE

(D) AN APPLICANT FOR THE LICENSE SHALL SUBMIT AN APPLICATION
BOARD PROVIDES.UNDER OATH ON THE FORM THAT THE

(E) THE $5,000 EVENT.LICENSE FEE IS PER ENTERTAINMENT

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 2 –