PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 488

Chapter 488

(House Bill 102)

AN ACT concerning

Real Property – Actions for Possession – Pet Protections

FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Agriculture to develop, publish, and
regularly update a fact sheet on the care and protection of pets in the event of an
eviction or any other loss of possession of real property; requiring the fact sheet to be
published in a certain manner; requiring a landlord to provide ~~information~~ ~~about~~ a
link to the fact sheet at the execution of a lease under certain circumstances;
requiring the Maryland Judiciary to provide ~~information~~ ~~about~~ a link to the fact
sheet when issuing certain warrants; requiring a sheriff, a constable, or any other
official, under certain circumstances, to return a pet to a tenant or certain other
person or to contact an animal shelter or a rescue organization and provide certain
notice; prohibiting the leaving of a pet on public property; and generally relating to
actions for possession of real property and pet protections.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–1701 and 15–101(a)(1) and (2)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Real Property
Section 14–801 through 14–806 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 8. Pet
Protections”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Agriculture

2–1701.

In this subtitle, “animal shelter” means:

(1) A county or municipal animal control facility;

(2) An organization that contracts with a county or municipality for animal
control; or

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 488 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) An organization that shelters animals and has received a grant from
the Spay/Neuter Fund under Subtitle 16 of this title during the previous year.

15–101.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Animal rescue organization” includes:

(i) A nonprofit organization incorporated for the purpose of rescuing
animals in need and finding permanent adoptive homes for the animals; and

(ii) A government–operated animal control unit that provides
animals for adoption.

Article – Real Property

SUBTITLE 8. PET PROTECTIONS.

14–801.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “ANIMAL ORGANIZATION” §RESCUE HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
15–101 AGRICULTURE ARTICLE.OF THE

(C) “ANIMAL SHELTER” § 2–1701HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
AGRICULTURE ARTICLE.

(D) “PET” CAT.MEANS A DOMESTICATED DOG OR

14–802.

THIS SUBTITLE APPLIES TO AN ACTION FOR POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY
NOVEMBER 1, 2023, BY:FILED ON OR AFTER

(1) A § 8–401, § 8–402, §LANDLORD AGAINST A TENANT UNDER OR
8–402.1 ARTICLE;OF THIS OR

(2) A COMPLAINANT AGAINST A PERSON HOLDING POSSESSION OF
§ 14–132 TITLE.REAL PROPERTY UNDER OF THIS

14–803.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 488

(A) BY OCTOBER 1, 2023, DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURETHE OF SHALL
DEVELOP AND PUBLISH ON ITS WEBSITE A FACT SHEET THAT PROVIDES
INFORMATION ABOUT HOW A PERSON MAY CARE FOR AND PROTECT ANY PETS IN
PERSON’STHE EVENT THE PERSON IS EVICTED OR LOSES POSSESSION OF THE
PROPERTY.

(B) THE DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURE SHALL:OF

(1) INCLUDE STATEIN THE FACT SHEET INFORMATION ON AND
RESOURCES,LOCAL INCLUDING ANIMAL SHELTERS AND ANIMAL RESCUE
ORGANIZATIONS; AND

(2) UPDATE BASIS.THE FACT SHEET ON A REGULAR

14–804.

ON NOVEMBER 1, 2023, LEASE,OR AFTER AT THE EXECUTION OF A THE
LANDLORD SHALL INCLUDE WITH THE LEASE A ~~DESCRIPTION~~ ~~OF~~ LINK TO THE FACT
DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURE’S §SHEET PUBLISHED ON THE OF WEBSITE UNDER
14–803 OF THIS SUBTITLE ~~AND~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FACT~~ ~~SHEET~~ ~~IS~~ ~~LOCATED~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~AGRICULTURE’S~~~~OF~~ ~~WEBSITE~~ IF THE LANDLORD KNOWS THAT A
PET.TENANT POSSESSES A

14–805.

BEGINNING NOVEMBER 1, 2023, MARYLAND JUDICIARYTHE SHALL INCLUDE
DEPARTMENTA ~~DESCRIPTION~~ ~~OF~~ LINK TO THE FACT SHEET PUBLISHED ON THE OF
AGRICULTURE’S § 14–803WEBSITE UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE ~~AND~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~AGRICULTURE’S~~~~FACT~~ ~~SHEET~~ ~~IS~~ ~~LOCATED~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~WEBSITE~~ WITH
§ 8–401(F)(1)(I), § 8–402(B)(2)(I) (V), §ANY WARRANT ISSUED UNDER OR OR
8–402.1(B) § 14–132(F) (I) TITLE.OF THIS ARTICLE OR OR OF THIS

14–806.

(A) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS WHEN
POSSESSION OF REAL PROPERTY IS DELIVERED TO A LANDLORD OR COMPLAINANT
§ 8–401, § 8–402, § 8–402.1FOLLOWING AN ACTION UNDER OR OF THIS ARTICLE OR
§ 14–132 TITLE, SHERIFF, CONSTABLE, SHALL:OF THIS THE OR OTHER OFFICIAL

(I) IMMEDIATELY PET;INSPECT THE PREMISES FOR ANY AND

(II) PROVIDE TO THE TENANT OR PERSON WHO WAS HOLDING
POSSESSION OF THE REAL PROPERTY ANY PET ON THE PREMISES BELONGING TO
PROPERTY.THE TENANT OR PERSON WHO WAS HOLDING POSSESSION OF THE REAL
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 488 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) IF THE TENANT OR PERSON WHO WAS HOLDING POSSESSION OF
REAL PROPERTY IS NOT PRESENT AT THE TIME THE REAL PROPERTY IS DELIVERED
COMPLAINANT, SHERIFF, CONSTABLE,TO A LANDLORD OR THE OR OTHER OFFICIAL
SHALL:

(I) CONTACT AN ANIMAL SHELTER OR ANIMAL RESCUE
PET;ORGANIZATION TO TAKE CUSTODY OF THE

(II) PROVIDE THE TENANT OR PERSON WHO WAS HOLDING
POSSESSION OF THE REAL PROPERTY WITH THE NAME AND CONTACT INFORMATION
OF THE ANIMAL SHELTER OR ANIMAL RESCUE ORGANIZATION WHERE THE PET IS
TAKEN; AND

(III) PROVIDE THE ANIMAL SHELTER OR ANIMAL RESCUE
INFORMATION,ORGANIZATION WITH THE NAME AND CONTACT INCLUDING THE
AVAILABLE,TELEPHONE NUMBER IF OF THE TENANT OR PERSON WHO WAS
TAKEN.HOLDING POSSESSION OF THE REAL PROPERTY FROM WHICH THE PET WAS

(B) A PERSON MAY NOT REMOVE A PET FROM REAL PROPERTY DELIVERED
§ 8–401, § 8–402,TO A LANDLORD OR COMPLAINANT FOLLOWING AN ACTION UNDER
§ 8–402.1 § 14–132OR OF THIS ARTICLE OR OF THIS TITLE AND LEAVE THE PET ON
RIGHT–OF–WAY.PUBLIC PROPERTY OR A PUBLIC

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 4 –