PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 479

Chapter 479

(House Bill 289)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Forestry Education Fund – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Maryland Forestry Education Fund as a special,
nonlapsing fund to expand and enhance the Maryland Forestry Foundation’s
capacity to provide certain education and resources to forest landowners, the ability
of district forestry boards and the knowledge of local governments to achieve healthy
and sustainable forests, and the ability of businesses to test innovative best
management practices in forestry; requiring interest earnings of the Fund to be
credited to the Fund; and generally relating to the Maryland Forestry Education
Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Natural Resources
Section 5–2001 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 20. Maryland Forestry
Education Fund”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 479 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SUBTITLE 20. MARYLAND FORESTRY EDUCATION FUND.

5–2001.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” MARYLAND FORESTRYTHIS MEANS THE
EDUCATION FUND.

(B) THERE MARYLAND FORESTRY EDUCATION FUND.IS A

(C) THE FUND ENHANCE:PURPOSE OF THE IS TO EXPAND AND

(1) THE MARYLAND FORESTRY FOUNDATION’S CAPACITY TO
MARYLAND’SPROVIDE EDUCATION AND RESOURCES THAT SUPPORT FOREST
LANDOWNERS;

(2) THE ABILITY OF DISTRICT FORESTRY BOARDS AND THE
MARYLAND ACHIEVE:KNOWLEDGE OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN TO

(I) ENVIRONMENTAL, ECONOMIC, AND SOCIAL
HEALTH;SUSTAINABILITY OF FOREST AND

(II) THE RESOURCES;SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF FOREST
AND

(3) THE ABILITY OF BUSINESSES TO TEST INNOVATIVE BEST
FORESTRY.MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN

(D) THE MARYLAND FORESTRY FOUNDATION SHALL ADMINISTER THE
FUND.

(E) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(F) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) MONEY STATE FUND;APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) INTEREST EARNINGS; AND

(3) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 479

(G) THE FUND FOR:MAY BE USED ONLY

(1) PROVIDING TRAINING AND EDUCATION TO FOREST
LANDOWNERS, BOARDS,DISTRICT FORESTRY AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO
LANDOWNERS, BOARDS,ENSURE THE AND GOVERNMENTS ARE WELL INFORMED ON
IN:ADVANCES AND DEVELOPMENTS

(I) HEALTHY MANAGEMENT;FOREST

(II) ECOLOGICAL MARKETS;SERVICE

(III) EMERGING THREATS;FORESTRY

(IV) CLIMATE SCIENCE;

(V) FOREST CONSERVATION;

(VI) URBAN FORESTRY;

(VII) SUSTAINABILITY SCIENCE;

(VIII) FORESTRY POLICY;

(IX) FORESTRY PRACTICES; AND

(X) RESOURCE OPTIONS THAT PROMOTE THE MULTIPLE
MANAGEMENT;BENEFITS OF FOREST

(2) PROVIDING OUTREACH AND ENGAGEMENT THAT BUILDS LOCAL
CAPACITY AND INSTITUTIONALIZES SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS WITHIN
BOARDS, INCLUDING:COMMUNITIES AND THE DISTRICT FORESTRY

(I) HOLDING A FOREST SUSTAINABILITY CONFERENCE ONCE
2 YEARS;EVERY

(II) IMPLEMENTING PEER–TO–PEER EXCHANGE;A LEARNING
AND

(III) PROVIDING PRESENTATIONS;HEALTHY FOREST

(3) DEVELOPING AND EXPANDING A HEALTHY FOREST EDUCATION
PROGRAM;AND CONSERVATION

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 479 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) IMPROVING THE OUTREACH OF DISTRICT FORESTRY BOARDS BY
EDUCATION, RECOGNITION, STRATEGIES,PROVIDING AND ACTIONS THE BOARDS
IMPLEMENT;CAN

(5) PROVIDING BOARDS,SMALL GRANTS TO DISTRICT FORESTRY
LANDOWNERS, GOVERNMENTS,FOREST LOCAL AND BUSINESSES TO TEST
FORESTRY;INNOVATIVE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN

(6) RECOGNIZING THE EFFORTS FOREST LANDOWNERS AND LOCAL
HEALTHY,GOVERNMENTS MAKE TOWARD ACHIEVING SUSTAINABLE FOREST
MANAGEMENT; AND

(7) EXPENSES FUND.RELATED TO THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(J) MONEY FUND OUTREACH, TRAINING,EXPENDED FROM THE FOR THE
EDUCATION, (G)AND GRANTS UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION IS
SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF FUNDING THAT
OTHERWISE WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR FORESTRY EDUCATION AND
OUTREACH.

(K) FOR 2025FISCAL ~~YEAR~~ YEARS AND ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THEREAFTER~~
2026, GOVERNORTHE SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN
$250,000 FUND.APPROPRIATION OF TO THE

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 479

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

Fund;171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair AND

172. MARYLAND FORESTRY EDUCATION FUND.THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 5 –