PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 385

Chapter 385

(House Bill 214)

AN ACT concerning

Commission on Public Health – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Commission on Public Health to make
recommendations to improve the delivery of foundational public health services in
the State; requiring the Commission to conduct a certain assessment ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~before~~ ~~a~~
~~certain~~ ~~date;~~ and generally relating to the Commission on Public Health.

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 13–4801 through 13–4807 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 48.
Commission on Public Health”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

SUBTITLE 48. COMMISSION PUBLIC HEALTH.ON

13–4801.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “COMMISSION” COMMISSION PUBLIC HEALTH.MEANS THE ON

(C) “FOUNDATIONAL SERVICES” INCLUDES:PUBLIC HEALTH

(1) THE AREAS:FOLLOWING FOUNDATIONAL

(I) COMMUNICABLE CONTROL;DISEASE

(II) CHRONIC PREVENTION;DISEASE AND INJURY

(III) ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH;PUBLIC

(IV) MATERNAL, CHILD, HEALTH;AND FAMILY AND

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 385 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(V) ACCESS CARE;TO AND LINKAGE WITH CLINICAL AND

(2) THE CAPABILITIES:FOLLOWING FOUNDATIONAL

(I) ASSESSMENT SURVEILLANCE;AND

(II) COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT;PARTNERSHIP

(III) EQUITY;

(IV) ORGANIZATIONAL COMPETENCIES;

(V) POLICY SUPPORT;DEVELOPMENT AND

(VI) ACCOUNTABILITY MANAGEMENT;AND PERFORMANCE

(VII) EMERGENCY RESPONSE;PREPAREDNESS AND AND

(VIII) COMMUNICATIONS.

13–4802.

THERE COMMISSION PUBLIC HEALTH.IS A ON

13–4803.

(A) THE COMMISSION MEMBERS:CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING

(1) ONE SENATE MARYLAND,MEMBER OF THE OF APPOINTED BY THE
PRESIDENT SENATE;OF THE

(2) ONE HOUSE DELEGATES,MEMBER OF THE OF APPOINTED BY THE
SPEAKER HOUSE;OF THE

(3) THE DEPUTY SECRETARY PUBLIC HEALTH, DEPUTYFOR OR THE
SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;

~~(2)~~ (4) THE DEPUTY SECRETARY BEHAVIORAL HEALTH,FOR OR
DEPUTY SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;THE

~~(3)~~ (5) THE DIRECTOR OFFICE MINORITY HEALTHOF THE OF AND
HEALTH DISPARITIES, DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;OR THE AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 385

~~(4)~~ (6) ~~THE~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~HEALTH~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~CARE~~ ~~COMMISSION,~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE;~~~~OR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(5)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR~~ ~~HEALTH~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~COST~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~REVIEW~~ ~~COMMISSION,~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE;~~~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(6)~~ THE MEMBERS, GOVERNOR:FOLLOWING APPOINTED BY THE

(I) ~~TWO~~ THREE WHOM:LOCAL HEALTH OFFICERS OF

1. ONE JURISDICTION;SHALL BE FROM A RURAL

2. ONE JURISDICTION;SHALL BE FROM A SUBURBAN
AND

3. ONE JURISDICTION;SHALL BE FROM AN URBAN

(II) TWO STATEREPRESENTATIVES FROM ACADEMIC
SYSTEMS;INSTITUTIONS WITH EXPERTISE IN PUBLIC HEALTH

(III) A FACULTY MEMBER FROM A PUBLIC HEALTH PROGRAM AT
BLACK UNIVERSITY;A HISTORICALLY COLLEGE OR AND

~~(IV)~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESIDENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~HEALTH~~
~~TECHNOLOGY;~~~~INFORMATION~~

~~(V)~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESIDENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~
~~WORKFORCE;~~~~HEALTH~~

~~(VI)~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~EQUITY;~~~~RESIDENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~HEALTH~~

~~(VII)~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESIDENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERIENCE~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~NET~~
~~PROVIDER;~~

~~(VIII)~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~LEADER~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~DEMONSTRATED~~
~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~IMPROVING~~ ~~POPULATION~~ ~~HEALTH~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~JURISDICTIONS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~STATE;~~

~~(IX)~~ ~~A~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~OFFICER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~LOCATED~~ ~~IN~~
~~STATE;~~~~THE~~

~~(X)~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATE;~~~~CONSUMER~~ ~~HEALTH~~ ~~ADVOCATE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(XI)~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATE.~~~~HEALTH~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~PROFESSIONAL~~ ~~LICENSED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 385 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(IV) AT LEAST THREE BUT NOT MORE THAN FIVE MEMBERS OF
THE PUBLIC WITH DEMONSTRATED INTEREST IN PUBLIC HEALTH AND EXPERIENCE
AREAS:IN AT LEAST ONE OF THE FOLLOWING

1. HEALTH EQUITY;

2. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY;

3. WORKFORCE; AND

4. POPULATION HEALTH.

(B) IN COMMISSION, COMMISSIONPERFORMING THE DUTIES OF THE THE
WITH, NECESSARY:SHALL CONSULT AS APPROPRIATE AND

(1) THE MARYLAND HEALTH CARE COMMISSION;

(2) THE HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEW COMMISSION;

(3) THE MARYLAND COMMUNITY HEALTH RESOURCES
COMMISSION;

(4) THE DEPARTMENT BUDGET MANAGEMENT;OF AND

(5) THE DEPARTMENT GENERAL SERVICES;OF

(6) THE MARYLAND DEPARTMENT DISABILITIES;OF

(7) THE STATE–DESIGNATED UTILITY;HEALTH DATA AND

(8) ANY STATE APPROPRIATE.OTHER AGENCY AS

(C) (1) THE COMMISSION SHALL ESTABLISH THE FOLLOWING
WORKGROUPS:

(I) FUNDING;

(II) GOVERNANCE CAPABILITIES;AND ORGANIZATIONAL

(III) WORKFORCE;

(IV) DATA TECHNOLOGY;AND INFORMATION AND

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 385

(V) COMMUNICATION ENGAGEMENT.AND PUBLIC

(2) EACH (1)WORKGROUP ESTABLISHED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF
INCLUDE:THIS SUBSECTION SHALL

(I) TWO COMMISSION;MEMBERS OF THE AND

(II) MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WITH RELEVANT EXPERIENCE IN
INCLUDE:THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE WORKGROUP WHO MAY

1. PRIMARY PRACTITIONERS;AND SPECIALTY CARE

2. PAYORS;

3. CONSUMER ADVOCATES;

4. HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES;

5. SAFETY PROVIDERS;NET HEALTH CARE

6. PUBLIC PRACTITIONERS;HEALTH ~~AND~~

7. COMMUNITY–BASED ORGANIZATIONS; AND

8. FAITH–BASED ORGANIZATIONS.

(3) THE PURPOSE OF THE WORKGROUPS ESTABLISHED UNDER
(1)PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION IS TO FOSTER BROAD ENGAGEMENT AND
PROVIDE EXPERTISE FOR THE PURPOSE OF INFORMING THE WORK AND
COMMISSION.RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE

(D) TO THE EXTENT PRACTICABLE AND CONSISTENT WITH FEDERAL AND
STATE LAW, COMMISSIONTHE MEMBERSHIP OF THE AND WORKGROUPS
RACIAL, ETHNIC,ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL REFLECT THE AND
STATE.GENDER DIVERSITY OF THE

~~(B)~~ (E) ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSION~~~~MEMBERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(A)(6)(II)~~ ~~(A)(4)(II)~~~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~COCHAIR~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSION~~ THE COMMISSION BY:SHALL BE COCHAIRED

(1) ONE (A)(6)(I)MEMBER APPOINTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, GOVERNOR;DESIGNATED BY THE

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 385 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) ONE (A)(6)(II)MEMBER APPOINTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, GOVERNOR;DESIGNATED BY THE AND

(3) THE (A)(6)(III)MEMBER APPOINTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION.

~~(C)~~ (F) A COMMISSION:MEMBER OF THE

(1) MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
COMMISSION; BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

13–4804.

THE ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS REPRESENTED BY THE COCHAIRS OF THE
COMMISSION COMMISSION.SHALL PROVIDE STAFF SUPPORT FOR THE

13–4805.

THE COMMISSIONPURPOSE OF THE IS TO MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO
IMPROVE THE DELIVERY OF FOUNDATIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES IN THE
STATE.

13–4806.

(A) ~~ON~~ ~~OCTOBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024,~~ THE COMMISSION~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ SHALL ASSESS
THE ~~CAPABILITY~~ FOUNDATIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH CAPABILITIES OF THE
DEPARTMENT STATEAND LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENTS IN THE ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~
~~STATE.~~~~FOUNDATIONAL~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~HEALTH~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~RESIDENTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

(B) (1) IN CONDUCTING THE ASSESSMENT REQUIRED UNDER
(A) SECTION, COMMISSION SHALL:SUBSECTION OF THIS THE

~~(I)~~ ~~CONSIDER~~ ~~FACTORS:~~~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~

~~1.~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STATE’S~~ ~~COVID–19;~~~~RESPONSE~~ ~~TO~~

~~2.~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STATE’S~~ ~~DEATHS;~~~~RESPONSE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OVERDOSE~~

~~3.~~ ~~RACIAL~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ETHNIC~~ ~~DISPARITIES~~ ~~IN~~ ~~MATERNAL~~
~~STATE;~~~~MORTALITY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BIRTH~~ ~~OUTCOMES~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 385

~~4.~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(2)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~~~TO~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~COMMISSION;~~~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~FACTORS~~ ~~CONSIDERED~~ ~~APPROPRIATE~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~HOLD~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~THREE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~MEETINGS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~DIFFERENT~~
~~STATE~~ ~~COMMENT.~~~~AREAS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~OPPORTUNITY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~PUBLIC~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~CONSIDER~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~ ~~THREE~~
~~(1)(I)4~~ ~~SUBSECTION.~~~~ADDITIONAL~~ ~~FACTORS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

(I) EXPLAIN THE IMPACT OF THE FOUNDATIONAL PUBLIC
STATE’SHEALTH CAPABILITIES ON THE ABILITY TO ADDRESS FOUNDATIONAL
AREAS,PUBLIC HEALTH INCLUDING AS THE FOUNDATIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH AREAS
HEALTH;RELATE TO BEHAVIORAL

(II) EXPLAIN THE IMPACT OF THE FOUNDATIONAL PUBLIC
STATE’S COVID–19,HEALTH CAPABILITIES ON THE ABILITY TO RESPOND TO
OVERDOSES, MORTALITY,MATERNAL AND INFANT AND OTHER MAJOR PUBLIC
APPROPRIATE;HEALTH CHALLENGES AS AND

(III) PROVIDE PUBLIC OUTREACH TO HOLD AT LEAST THREE
STATEPUBLIC MEETINGS IN DIFFERENT AREAS OF THE THAT INCLUDE AN
COMMENT.OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC

~~(3)~~ (2) IN CONDUCTING THE ASSESSMENT REQUIRED UNDER
(A) SECTION, COMMISSION MAY:SUBSECTION OF THIS THE

(I) REQUEST ~~AND~~ ~~OBTAIN~~ DEIDENTIFIED AND PUBLICLY
DEPARTMENT, DEPARTMENTS,AVAILABLE DATA FROM THE LOCAL HEALTH AND
STATE–DESIGNATED ~~EXCHANGE;~~ UTILITY;THE HEALTH ~~INFORMATION~~ DATA AND

(II) REQUEST STATEINTERVIEWS WITH AND LOCAL HEALTH
OFFICIALS; ~~AND~~

~~(III)~~ ~~FORM~~ ~~WORKGROUPS.~~

(C) (1) BASED (A)ON THE ASSESSMENT CONDUCTED UNDER SUBSECTION
SECTION, COMMISSIONOF THIS THE SHALL MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
AREAS:REFORM IN THE FOLLOWING

(I) ORGANIZATION STATEOF AND LOCAL PUBLIC HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS;

(II) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, EXCHANGE,INFORMATION
ANALYTICS;AND DATA AND
– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 385 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(III) WORKFORCE, INCLUDING HUMAN RESOURCES AND USE OF
HEALTH;THE MEDICAL RESERVE CORPS FOR PUBLIC

(IV) PROCUREMENT, INCLUDING OVERSIGHT OF
CONTRACTORS;

(V) FUNDING; ~~AND~~

(VI) COMMUNICATION ENGAGEMENT;AND PUBLIC AND

~~(VI)~~ (VII) ANY OTHER AREA CONSIDERED APPROPRIATE BY THE
COMMISSION.

(2) THE (1)RECOMMENDATIONS MADE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION SHALL INCLUDE ~~WHETHER~~ THE FUNDING OR LEGISLATION ~~IS~~
RECOMMENDATION, ANY.REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT THE IF

(3) THE COMMISSION SHALL JUSTIFY EACH RECOMMENDATION
(1)MADE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION BASED ON HOW THE
RECOMMENDATION CONTRIBUTES TO THE PROVISION OF FOUNDATIONAL PUBLIC
SERVICES.HEALTH

(4) (I) THE COMMISSION SHALL MAKE A DRAFT OF ITS
30 DAYS.RECOMMENDATIONS AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT FOR

(II) THE COMMISSIONFINAL REPORT OF THE SHALL INCLUDE A
RESPONSE TO ANY SUBSTANTIVE PUBLIC COMMENT RECEIVED ON THE DRAFT
RECOMMENDATIONS.

(5) (I) THE COMMISSION SHALL USE BEST EFFORTS TO REACH
RECOMMENDATIONS.CONSENSUS ON ITS

(II) IF COMMISSIONTHE CANNOT REACH CONSENSUS ON ITS
RECOMMENDATIONS, COMMISSIONTHE SHALL INCLUDE THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
COMMISSION’S REPORT.DISSENTING COMMENTS IN THE FINAL

13–4807.

(A) ON DECEMBER 1, 2023, COMMISSIONOR BEFORE THE SHALL SUBMIT
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257AN INTERIM REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, SENATE BUDGET TAXATIONTHE THE AND
COMMITTEE, SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE, HOUSE APPROPRIATIONSTHE THE

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 385

COMMITTEE, HOUSE HEALTH GOVERNMENT OPERATIONSAND THE AND
COMMITTEE.

(B) ON ~~OCTOBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025~~ DECEMBER 1, 2024,OR BEFORE THE
COMMISSION SHALL SUBMIT A FINAL REPORT OF ITS FINDINGS AND
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, SENATE BUDGET TAXATIONTHE THE AND
COMMITTEE, SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE, HOUSE APPROPRIATIONSTHE THE
COMMITTEE, HOUSE HEALTH GOVERNMENT OPERATIONSAND THE AND
COMMITTEE.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ June 1, 2023. It shall remain effective for a period of ~~4~~ 2 years and 1 month and,
at the end of ~~September~~ June 30, ~~2027~~ 2025, this Act, with no further action required by
the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 9 –