PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 425

Chapter 425

(House Bill 263)

AN ACT concerning

St. Mary’s County – Gaming – ~~Devices~~ ~~and~~ ~~Events~~ Senior Activity Centers

FOR the purpose of ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~definitions~~ ~~of~~ ~~“gaming~~ ~~device”~~ ~~and~~ ~~“gaming~~ ~~event”~~ ~~for~~
~~purposes~~ ~~of~~ ~~provisions~~ ~~of~~ ~~law~~ ~~governing~~ ~~gaming~~ ~~in~~ ~~St.~~ ~~Mary’s~~ ~~County;~~ authorizing a
certain senior activity center to conduct gaming events, bunco games, and card
games in St. Mary’s County, subject to certain limitations; requiring any money that
remains after prizes are awarded to be used to support future programming at the
senior activity center; and generally relating to gaming in St. Mary’s County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Criminal Law
Section 13–2101(a) and (e) ~~and~~ ~~13–2111~~
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Criminal~~ ~~Law~~
~~Section~~ ~~13–2101(d)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(e)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2022~~ ~~Supplement)~~

BY adding to
Article – Criminal Law
Section 13–2116
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Criminal Law

13–2101.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

~~“GAMING~~ ~~DEVICE”~~ ~~MEANS:~~~~(d)~~ ~~(1)~~

~~(I)~~ ~~A~~ ~~GAMING~~ ~~TABLE~~ ~~AT~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~A~~ ~~GAME~~ ~~OF~~ ~~CHANCE~~ ~~IS~~ ~~PLAYED~~
~~VALUE;~~~~FOR~~ ~~MONEY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~THING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~CONSIDERATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OR~~

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 425 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(II)~~ ~~A~~ ~~GAME~~ ~~OR~~ ~~DEVICE~~ ~~AT~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~MONEY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~THING~~
~~BET,~~ ~~WAGERED,~~ ~~GAMBLED.~~~~OR~~ ~~CONSIDERATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~VALUE~~ ~~IS~~ ~~OR~~

~~(2)~~ ~~“Gaming~~ ~~device”~~ ~~includes~~ ~~a~~ ~~paddle~~ ~~wheel,~~ ~~wheel~~ ~~of~~ ~~fortune,~~ ~~chance~~ ~~book,~~
~~bingo,~~ ~~Nevada~~ ~~card,~~ ~~and~~ ~~a~~ ~~stamp~~ ~~machine.~~

~~[(2)]~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~“Gaming~~ ~~device”~~ ~~does~~ ~~not~~ ~~include~~ ~~a~~ ~~slot~~ ~~machine,~~ ~~as~~ ~~defined~~ ~~in~~ ~~§~~
~~12–301~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~article.~~

~~[or]~~ raffle, ~~GAME,~~(e) “Gaming event” means a carnival, bazaar, ~~BINGO~~ ~~CARD~~
~~GAME,~~ ~~OPERATED.~~~~OR~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~EVENT~~ ~~AT~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~A~~ ~~GAMING~~ ~~DEVICE~~ ~~IS~~

~~13–2111.~~

~~A~~ ~~qualified~~ ~~organization~~ ~~may~~ ~~hold~~ ~~a~~ ~~gaming~~ ~~event~~ ~~and~~ ~~may~~ ~~operate~~ ~~a~~ ~~gaming~~ ~~device~~
~~if~~ ~~an~~ ~~individual~~ ~~or~~ ~~group~~ ~~of~~ ~~individuals~~ ~~does~~ ~~not:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~benefit~~ ~~financially~~ ~~from~~ ~~the~~ ~~operation~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~gaming~~ ~~device;~~ ~~or~~

~~(2)~~ ~~receive~~ ~~from~~ ~~the~~ ~~operation~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~gaming~~ ~~device~~ ~~any~~ ~~proceeds~~ ~~for~~
~~personal~~ ~~use~~ ~~or~~ ~~benefit.~~

13–2116.

(A) IN SECTION, “SENIOR CENTER”THIS ACTIVITY MEANS A COMMUNITY OR
NEIGHBORHOOD FACILITY IN WHICH A BROAD SPECTRUM OF SERVICES ARE
SPOUSES,ORGANIZED AND PROVIDED TO SENIOR CITIZENS AND THEIR INCLUDING
HEALTH, SOCIAL, NUTRITIONAL, EDUCATIONAL, SERVICES.AND RECREATIONAL

(B) A EVENT,SENIOR ACTIVITY CENTER MAY CONDUCT A GAMING BUNCO
GAME, CENTER.OR CARD GAME IN THE

(C) A NOT:SENIOR ACTIVITY CENTER MAY

(1) $50AWARD A PRIZE OF MONEY EXCEEDING TO A WINNER IN EACH
SESSION; OR

(2) $25 SESSION.CHARGE A PARTICIPANT MORE THAN TO PLAY ONE

(D) ANY MONEY THAT REMAINS AFTER PRIZES ARE AWARDED SHALL BE
CENTER.USED TO SUPPORT FUTURE PROGRAMMING AT THE SENIOR ACTIVITY

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 425

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 3 –