PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 328

Chapter 328

(House Bill 278)

AN ACT concerning

Health Occupations – Clinical Nurse Specialists – Prescribing

FOR the purpose of defining “clinical nurse specialist” and “practice as a clinical nurse
specialist” for the purpose of authorizing clinical nurse specialists to prescribe drugs
and durable medical equipment under regulations adopted by the State Board of
Nursing; altering the definition of “authorized prescriber” for purposes of the
Maryland Pharmacy Act to include clinical nurse specialists; authorizing a licensed
physician to personally prepare and dispense a prescription written by a clinical
nurse specialist; and generally relating to the prescription authority of clinical nurse
specialists.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health Occupations
Section 8–101(a) and (b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Health Occupations
Section 8–514
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health Occupations
Section 12–101(b) and 12–102(c)(2)(iv)2.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health Occupations

8–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Advanced practice registered nurse” means an individual who:

(1) (i) Is licensed by the Board to practice registered nursing; or
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 328 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) Has a multistate licensure privilege to practice registered
nursing under the Nurse Licensure Compact; and

(2) Is certified by the Board to practice as:

(i) A nurse practitioner;

(ii) A nurse anesthetist;

(iii) A nurse midwife; or

(iv) A clinical nurse specialist.

8–514.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “CLINICAL SPECIALIST” ~~IS:~~NURSE MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO

(I) 1. ~~LICENSED~~ IS BOARDLICENSED BY THE TO PRACTICE
NURSING;REGISTERED OR

2. HAS A MULTISTATE LICENSURE PRIVILEGE TO
NURSE LICENSURE COMPACT;PRACTICE REGISTERED NURSING UNDER THE AND

(II) ~~CERTIFIED~~ IS BOARDCERTIFIED BY THE TO PRACTICE AS A
SPECIALIST;CLINICAL NURSE ~~AND~~

~~(III)~~ ~~AUTHORIZED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PRESCRIBE~~ ~~DRUGS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~DURABLE~~
~~BOARD.~~~~MEDICAL~~ ~~EQUIPMENT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~

(3) (I) “PRACTICE SPECIALIST” TO:AS A CLINICAL NURSE MEANS

1. PROVIDE DIRECT CARE TO PATIENTS WITH COMPLEX
NEEDS;

2. ACT AS A CONSULTANT TO ANOTHER HEALTH CARE
NEEDED;PROVIDER AS

3. CONDUCT HEALTH–RELATED RESEARCH; AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 328

4. PROVIDE EDUCATION AND GUIDANCE FOR STAFF
NURSES.

(II) “PRACTICE SPECIALIST” INCLUDES:AS A CLINICAL NURSE

1. ORDERING, PERFORMING, AND INTERPRETING
TESTS;LABORATORY

2. ORDERING DIAGNOSTIC TESTS AND USING THE
PATIENTS;FINDINGS OR RESULTS IN THE CARE OF

3. PRESCRIBING DRUGS AND DURABLE MEDICAL
~~(2)(III)~~EQUIPMENT ~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ UNDER
BOARD;REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE

4. ORDERING CARE;HOME HEALTH AND HOSPICE AND

5. INITIATING, MONITORING, AND ALTERING
TREATMENTS.APPROPRIATE THERAPIES OR

(B) PRACTICE AS A CLINICAL NURSE SPECIALIST IS GOVERNED BY RULES
§ 8–205AND REGULATIONS THAT ARE ADOPTED UNDER OF THIS TITLE AND THAT
NURSING.CONCERN ADDITIONAL ACTS IN THE PRACTICE OF REGISTERED

12–101.

(b) “Authorized prescriber” means any licensed dentist, licensed dental hygienist
with prescriptive authority under § 4–206.4 of this article, licensed physician, licensed
podiatrist, licensed veterinarian, advanced practice nurse with prescriptiveREGISTERED
~~§~~ ~~8–514~~ TITLE 8authority under ~~§~~ ~~8–508~~ of this article, licensed nurse anesthetist, or~~OR~~
other individual authorized by law to prescribe prescription or nonprescription drugs or
devices.

12–102.

(c) (2) This title does not prohibit:

(iv) A licensed physician who complies with the requirements of item
(ii) of this paragraph from personally preparing and dispensing a prescription written by:

[A2. nurse practitioner who is authorized to practice under
3] ANTitle 8, Subtitle ADVANCED PRACTICE REGISTERED NURSE WITH
~~§~~ ~~8–508~~ ~~§~~ ~~8–514~~ TITLE 8 of this article and isPRESCRIPTIVE AUTHORITY UNDER ~~OR~~
working with the physician in the same office setting; or

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 328 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 4 –