PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 649

Chapter 649

(House Bill 243)

AN ACT concerning

Baltimore City Young Readers Program ~~–~~ ~~Expansion~~ ~~and~~ and Young Readers
Matching Grant Program – Alterations
(Young Readers Program ~~Expansion~~ Act of 2023)

FOR the purpose of ~~altering~~ transferring the Baltimore City Young Readers Program ~~to~~ ~~be~~
~~the~~ ~~Statewide~~ ~~Young~~ ~~Readers~~ ~~Program;~~ ~~establishing~~ ~~the~~ ~~Program~~ ~~within~~ and the
Young Readers Matching Grant Program to the Maryland State Library Agency;
~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~purpose~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Program;~~ and requiring the State Librarian to administer
the ~~Program;~~ programs; altering the purpose of the programs; authorizing public
libraries to apply for ~~program~~ ~~grants~~ grants from the Young Readers Matching Grant
Program; ~~requiring~~ ~~program~~ ~~grant~~ ~~applicants~~ ~~to~~ ~~prioritize~~ ~~the~~ ~~distribution~~ ~~of~~ ~~books~~
~~to~~ ~~children~~ ~~in~~ ~~low–income~~ ~~zip~~ ~~codes~~ ~~within~~ ~~the~~ ~~applicants’~~ ~~area~~ ~~of~~ ~~service;~~ and
generally relating to the Baltimore City Young Readers Program and the Young
Readers Matching Grant Program.

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Human~~ ~~Services~~
~~Section~~ ~~8–1401~~ ~~through~~ ~~8–1403~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2019~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2022~~ ~~Supplement)~~

BY repealing
Article – Human Services
Section 8–1401
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY transferring
Article – Human Services
Section 8–1402 and 8–1403
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
to be
Article – Education
Section 23–110 and 23–111, respectively,
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 23–110 and 23–111
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 649 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)
(As enacted by Section 2 of this Act)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 8–1401 of Article – Human Services of the Annotated Code of Maryland be
repealed.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GENERAL~~ ~~ASSEMBLY~~
~~OF~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~ That Section(s) 8–1402 and 8–1403 of Article – Human Services of the
Annotated Code of Maryland be transferred to be Section(s) 23–110 and 23–111,
respectively, of Article – Education of the Annotated Code of Maryland.

SECTION ~~1.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GENERAL~~ ~~ASSEMBLY~~
~~OF~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~ That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – ~~Human~~ ~~Services~~ Education

~~8–1401.~~

~~In~~ ~~this~~ ~~subtitle,~~ ~~“early~~ ~~reader~~ ~~organization”~~ ~~means~~ ~~a~~ ~~nonprofit~~ ~~organization:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~that~~ ~~is~~ ~~tax~~ ~~exempt~~ ~~under~~ ~~§~~ ~~501(c)(3)~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Internal~~ ~~Revenue~~ ~~Code;~~ ~~and~~

~~[mail]~~~~(2)~~ ~~whose~~ ~~mission~~ ~~is~~ ~~to~~ ~~to~~ ~~children~~ ~~free,~~ ~~high–quality~~~~DISTRIBUTE~~
~~books~~ ~~designed~~ ~~to~~ ~~aid~~ ~~the~~ ~~development~~ ~~of~~ ~~reading~~ ~~skills.~~

~~8–1402.~~ 23–110.

(1) ~~[Baltimore~~ ~~City]~~ ~~STATEWIDE~~(a) In this section, ~~“Program”~~ ~~means~~ ~~the~~
INDICATED.~~Young~~ ~~Readers~~ ~~Program~~ THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS

(2) “EARLY ORGANIZATION”READER MEANS A NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION:

(I) THAT § 501(C)(3) INTERNALIS TAX EXEMPT UNDER OF THE
REVENUE CODE; AND

(II) WHOSE FREE,MISSION IS TO DISTRIBUTE TO CHILDREN
HIGH–QUALITY SKILLS.BOOKS DESIGNED TO AID THE DEVELOPMENT OF READING

(3) “PROGRAM” BALTIMORE CITY YOUNG READERSMEANS THE
PROGRAM.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 649

~~[Baltimore~~ ~~City]~~ ~~STATEWIDE~~(b) There is a Young Readers Program in the
[Division] ~~MARYLAND~~ STATE LIBRARY AGENCY.

(c) The purpose of the Program is to work with an early reader organization to
[mail] ~~[Baltimore~~ ~~City]~~ ~~MARYLAND.~~free, high–quality books to children inDISTRIBUTE

[Deputy Director] STATE LIBRARIAN(d) The shall:

ADMINISTER(1) ~~administer~~ the Program; and

CARRY(2) ~~carry~~ out the Program in partnership with an early reader
organization partner.

(e) For each fiscal year, the Governor shall include in the annual budget bill an
appropriation of $200,000 to the Program.

~~8–1403.~~ 23–111.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Affiliated service” means a book–gifting service performed by a
nonprofit organization that is tax exempt under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code
or a unit of State, county, or municipal government that forms an affiliated partnership
with an early reader organization.

“EARLY ORGANIZATION”(3) READER MEANS A NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION:

(I) THAT § 501(C)(3) INTERNALIS TAX EXEMPT UNDER OF THE
REVENUE CODE; AND

(II) WHOSE FREE,MISSION IS TO DISTRIBUTE TO CHILDREN
HIGH–QUALITY SKILLS.BOOKS DESIGNED TO AID THE DEVELOPMENT OF READING

(4) “Program” means the Young Readers Matching Grant Program.

[Division](b) There is a Young Readers Matching Grant Program in the
~~MARYLAND~~ STATE LIBRARY AGENCY.

(c) The purpose of the Program is to provide grants to PUBLIC LIBRARIES AND
affiliated services to:

SUPPORT(1) ~~support~~ the establishment and operation of affiliated
services; and

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 649 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

CONTRIBUTE(2) ~~contribute~~ an amount equal to the amount of funding
provided for the operation of an affiliated service.

[Deputy Director] STATE LIBRARIAN(d) The shall administer the Program.

[An] A(e) (1) affiliated service may submit anPUBLIC LIBRARY OR AN
[Deputy Director] STATE LIBRARIANapplication for a program grant on the form that the
requires.

(2) An application for a program grant shall include a plan to ensure that
the affiliated service is able to gift books to eligible children,PUBLIC LIBRARY OR THE
~~[including]~~ children in low–income zip codes within its area of service.~~PRIORITIZING~~

(3) A program grant shall be disbursed to anA PUBLIC LIBRARY OR
affiliated service that qualifies for the Program.

(F) THE STATE LIBRARY BOARD SHALL:

(1) ON DECEMBER 1, 2024,~~ON~~ OR BEFORE AND EVERY OTHER YEAR
THEREAFTER, GENERAL ASSEMBLYREPORT TO THE ON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
PROGRAM § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTTHE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE; AND

(2) COLLECT~~COLLECT~~ STATISTICS AND OTHER INFORMATION
PURPOSE.NECESSARY FOR THIS

[(f)] (G) For each fiscal year, the Governor shall include in the annual budget
[$250,000] ~~$500,000~~ $350,000bill an appropriation of to the Program.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 4 –