PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 56

Chapter 56

(House Bill 238)

AN ACT concerning

Massage Therapy – ~~Definition~~ ~~and~~ Discipline

FOR the purpose of ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~definition~~ ~~of~~ ~~“practice~~ ~~massage~~ ~~therapy”~~ ~~for~~ ~~purposes~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~
~~Maryland~~ ~~Massage~~ ~~Therapy~~ ~~Act~~ ~~to~~ ~~include~~ ~~the~~ ~~professional~~ ~~practice~~ ~~of~~ ~~massage~~
~~therapy~~ ~~without~~ ~~compensation;~~ authorizing the State Board of Massage Therapy
Examiners to grant a stay of enforcement of a Board order in accordance with the
Administrative Procedure Act; altering the grounds for disciplining massage
therapists and procedures related to the discipline of massage therapists, including
appeals procedures and reinstatement procedures; altering the application of the
penalties for practicing or attempting to practice massage therapy without a license
or registration and for false representation to the public of an authorization to
practice massage therapy; and generally relating to the practice of massage therapy.

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~without~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Health~~ ~~Occupations~~
~~Section~~ ~~6–101(a)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(b)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2022~~ ~~Supplement)~~

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health Occupations
Section ~~6–101(g),~~ 6–308(a)(21) and (22), 6–310, 6–502, and 6–504
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Health Occupations
Section 6–308(a)(23) and 6–312
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing
Article – Health Occupations
Section 6–308(d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health Occupations
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 56 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~6–101.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~In~~ ~~this~~ ~~title~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~words~~ ~~have~~ ~~the~~ ~~meanings~~ ~~indicated.~~

~~(b)~~ ~~“Board”~~ ~~means~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Board~~ ~~of~~ ~~Massage~~ ~~Therapy~~ ~~Examiners.~~

~~[and~~ ~~for],~~~~(g)~~ ~~“Practice~~ ~~massage~~ ~~therapy”~~ ~~means~~ ~~to~~ ~~engage~~ ~~professionally~~ ~~WITH~~
~~compensation,~~ ~~in~~ ~~massage~~ ~~therapy.~~~~OR~~ ~~WITHOUT~~

6–308.

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 6–309 of this subtitle, the Board may
deny a license or registration to an applicant, reprimand a licensee or registration holder,
place any licensee or registration holder on probation, or suspend or revoke the license of a
licensee or the registration of a registration holder if the applicant, licensee, or registration
holder:

(21) Knowingly does an act that has been determined by the Board to be a
[or]violation of the Board’s regulations;

(22) Fails to submit to a criminal history records check in accordance with §
subtitle;6–303 of this OR

(23) FAILS BOARD ORDER.TO COMPLY WITH A

[(d) The Board shall file a notice for publication in the earliest publication of the
Maryland Register of each revocation or suspension of a license or registration under this
suspension.]section within 24 hours after the revocation or

6–310.

(a) Except as provided in this section for an action under § 6–308 of this subtitle,
any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Board in a contested case, as defined in the
Administrative Procedure Act, may petition for judicial review as allowed by the
Administrative Procedure Act.

(b) Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the Board under § 6–308 of this
subtitle may not appeal to the Secretary but may take a direct judicial appeal as provided
in the Administrative Procedure Act.

(C) (1) THE BOARD BOARDMAY GRANT A STAY OF ENFORCEMENT OF A
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT.ORDER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 56

(2) AN BOARDORDER BY THE MAY NOT BE STAYED PENDING
REVIEW.JUDICIAL

(D) THE BOARD MAY APPEAL A DECISION THAT REVERSES OR MODIFIES ITS
ORDER.

6–312.

IF A LICENSE OR REGISTRATION HAS BEEN SUSPENDED OR REVOKED UNDER
§ 6–308 SUBTITLE, BOARDOF THIS THE MAY REINSTATE THAT LICENSE OR
WITH:REGISTRATION ONLY IN ACCORDANCE

(1) THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE ORDER OF SUSPENSION OR
REVOCATION;ORDER OF OR

(2) AN BOARD.ORDER OF REINSTATEMENT ISSUED BY THE

6–502.

(a) An individual who is not a licensed massage therapist or registered massage
practitioner under this title may not advertise or claim by title, abbreviation, sign, card, or
any other representation that the individual practices massage, massage therapy,
myotherapy, or any synonym or derivation of these terms.

(b) An individual who is a registered massage practitioner under this title, or a
business entity that employs an individual who is a registered massage practitioner under
this title, may not advertise to the public that the individual or business entity provides
health–related therapeutic massage services.

(c) Unless authorized to practice under this title, a person may not use the title
“massage therapist”, “MT”, “licensed massage therapist”, “LMT”, “massage practitioner”,
“MP”, “registered massage practitioner”, or “RMP”, or any other term or title with the intent
to represent that the person practices massage therapy.

[(1)(d) An individual may not perform a massage or offer to perform a massage
on another individual for compensation unless the individual who performs the massage or
offers to perform a massage is a licensed massage therapist or registered massage
practitioner.

(2)] A law enforcement officer may demand proof of licensure or
registration.

6–504.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 56 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) THIS(a) SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A PERSON WHO
PRACTICES OR ATTEMPTS TO PRACTICE MASSAGE THERAPY WITHOUT A LICENSE OR
PERSON’SREGISTRATION IF THE LICENSE OR REGISTRATION EXPIRED FEWER THAN
6 OCCURRED.MONTHS BEFORE THE VIOLATION

(2) A person who practices or attempts to practice massage therapy
without a license or registration in violation of § 6–501 of this subtitle or represents to the
public in violation of § 6–502 of this subtitle that the person is authorized to practice
massage therapy is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to:

[(1)] (I) For a first offense, a fine not exceeding $2,000 or imprisonment
not exceeding 6 months; or

[(2)] (II) For a subsequent offense, a fine not exceeding $6,000 or
imprisonment not exceeding 1 year.

(b) A person who is convicted under subsection (a) of this section shall reimburse
the Board for the direct costs of the Board, including court reporting services and expert
witness fees, incurred as a result of a prosecution under subsection (a) of this section.

(c) (1) A person who violates § 6–501 of this subtitle is subject to a civil fine of
not more than $10,000 to be assessed by the Board in accordance with regulations adopted
by the Board.

(2) The Board shall pay any penalty collected under this subsection into
the State Board of Massage Therapy Examiners Fund.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 4 –