PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

Chapter 270

(House Bill 260)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Sign Language Interpreters Act

FOR the purpose of establishing a licensing and regulatory system for sign language
interpreters under the State Board of Sign Language Interpreters in the Office of the
Deaf and Hard of Hearing; and generally relating to the licensing of sign language
interpreters and the State Board of Sign Language Interpreters.

BY renumbering
Article – State Government
Section 8–403(59) through (63)
to be Section 8–403(60) through (64), respectively
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Government
Section 8–403(59); new part designation “Part I. Definitions” to immediately precede
Section 9–2401; new part designation “Part II. Office of the Deaf and Hard of
Hearing” to immediately precede Section 9–2402; and 9–2410 through 9–2435
to be under the new part “Part III. Sign Language Interpreters”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–2401 ~~and,~~ 9–2403, and 9–2407
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 8–403(59) through (63) of Article – State Government of the Annotated
Code of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 8–403(60) through (64), respectively.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the new part designation
“Part II. Office of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing” be added to immediately precede Section
9–2402 of Article – State Government of the Annotated Code of Maryland.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – State Government
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

8–403.

This subtitle applies only to the following governmental activities and units:

(59) SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETERS, STATE BOARD (§ 9–2410OF OF
ARTICLE);THIS

PART I. DEFINITIONS.

9–2401.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(B) “AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE” VISUAL–SPATIALMEANS A METHOD OF
HANDS, ARMS,COMMUNICATION THAT IS A DISTINCT LANGUAGE INVOLVING THE
MARKERS, OTHERS,FACIAL AND BODY MOVEMENTS TO COMMUNICATE WITH
THOUGHTS, WORDS, EMOTIONS,INCLUDING THROUGH THE CONVEYANCE OF AND
INFORMATION.GRAMMATICAL

(C) “BEHAVIORAL SETTING” PROVIDES:HEALTH MEANS A SETTING THAT

(1) SCREENING;PSYCHIATRIC OR PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT OR

(2) PSYCHOTHERAPY, COUNSELING,GROUP OR INDIVIDUAL OR
TREATMENT; OR

(3) DISORDERS,REHABILITATION SERVICES FOR SUBSTANCE USE
DISORDERS, DISORDERS,ADDICTIVE MENTAL OR A COMBINATION OF THESE
DISORDERS.

(D) “BOARD” STATE BOARD SIGN LANGUAGEMEANS THE OF
INTERPRETERS OFFICE.WITHIN THE

[(b)] (E) “Council” means the Maryland Advisory Council on Deaf and Hard of
Hearing Individuals.

[(c)] (F) (1) “Deaf and hard of hearing individuals” means those residents of
Maryland who have a partial or complete loss of hearing.

(2) “Deaf and hard of hearing individuals” includes individuals who are
deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind, and late–deafened.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

[(d)] (G) “Deafblind” means those residents of Maryland who have concomitant
vision and hearing loss.

[(e)] (H) “Director” means the Director of the Office.

(I) “FUND” SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETERS FUND.MEANS THE

(J) “HERITAGE SIGNER” AMERICANMEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO USED
SIGN LANGUAGE CHILDHOOD.AS A PRIMARY LANGUAGE IN

(K) “LEGAL SETTING” INCLUDES:

(1) PROCEEDINGS;COURT

(2) ATTORNEY–CLIENT CONFERENCES;

(3) ENFORCEMENT;INVESTIGATIONS BY LAW

(4) DEPOSITIONS;

(5) INTERVIEWS;WITNESS

(6) SETTLEMENTS;REAL ESTATE AND

(7) HEARINGS.ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGISLATIVE

(L) “LICENSE” PART IIIMEANS A LICENSE ISSUED UNDER OF THIS
SERVICES.SUBTITLE TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION

(M) “MEDICAL SETTING” INCLUDES:

(1) HOSPITAL;AN ACUTE CARE

(2) CENTER;AN URGENT CARE

(3) CLINIC;AN OUTPATIENT

(4) SHORT–TERM FACILITIES;CARE

(5) LONG–TERM FACILITIES;CARE

(6) PHYSICIAN’S OFFICE;A AND

(7) CARE.HOME HEALTH

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(N) “NATIONALLY CERTIFICATION” MEANS:OR REGIONALLY RECOGNIZED

(1) BY:A CERTIFICATION ISSUED AND RECOGNIZED

(I) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION DEAF (NAD);THE OF THE

(II) REGISTRY INTERPRETERS DEAF (RID);THE OF FOR THE
OR

(III) BOARD EVALUATION INTERPRETERS (BEI);THE OF FOR
OR

(2) ANY OTHER CERTIFICATION ISSUED BY A NATIONAL OR REGIONAL
BOARD.ORGANIZATION THAT IS RECOGNIZED BY THE

[(f)] (O) “Office” means the Office of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing.

(P) (1) “PROVIDE SERVICES”SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION MEANS
IN:TO CONVEY THE MEANING OF A MESSAGE THAT IS EXPRESSED

(I) AN ORAL OR SIGNED LANGUAGE BY RENDERING THE
AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE;MESSAGE IN OR

(II) AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE BY RENDERING THE MESSAGE
LANGUAGE.IN AN ORAL OR SIGNED

(2) “PROVIDE SERVICES”SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION
INCLUDES PROVIDING SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN A VIDEO
SETTING.REMOTE INTERPRETING

(Q) “RESTORATIVE PROGRAM”JUSTICE MEANS A PROGRAM DESIGNED TO
REPAIR HARM CAUSED TO ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN A CRIME THROUGH
MEDIATION, DIALOGUE, OR GROUP CONFERENCING BETWEEN A LICENSEE AND ANY
COMPLAINANT.AGGRIEVED PARTY OR

(R) “SCHOOL SETTING” MEANS A SETTING IN WHICH THE FOLLOWING ARE
PROVIDED:

(1) EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS OR SERVICES OFFERED BY A PUBLIC
SCHOOL;OR NONPUBLIC OR

(2) CAREER TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
STATE DEPARTMENT EDUCATION.STUDENTS THAT ARE REGULATED BY THE OF

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(S) “SIGN INTERPRETER”LANGUAGE MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS
BOARDLICENSED BY THE TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION
SERVICES.

(T) “VIDEO RELAY SERVICE” MEANS THE FEDERALLY REIMBURSED AND
REGULATED PROGRAM ESTABLISHED TO ENABLE PHONE CALLS BETWEEN USERS OF
AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE AMERICAN SIGNAND INDIVIDUALS WHO DO NOT USE
LANGUAGE BY VIDEOCONFERENCING TECHNOLOGY AND THE USE OF THE SERVICES
INTERPRETER.OF A REMOTELY LOCATED SIGN LANGUAGE

(U) (1) “VIDEO SETTING”REMOTE INTERPRETING MEANS PROVIDING
SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES BY VIDEOCONFERENCING IN WHICH
THE PARTICIPANTS ARE IN ONE LOCATION AND THE INTERPRETER IS IN A SEPARATE
LOCATION.

(2) “VIDEO SETTING”REMOTE INTERPRETING DOES NOT INCLUDE
VIDEO RELAY SERVICE.

9–2403.

(a) The Office shall be responsible for promoting the general welfare of deaf and
hard of hearing individuals in the State.

(b) The responsibilities of the Office shall include:

(1) providing, advocating, and coordinating the adoption of public policies,
regulations, and programs that will benefit deaf and hard of hearing individuals;

(2) improving access to communication and to existing services and
programs for deaf and hard of hearing individuals;

(3) providing direct services to deaf and hard of hearing individuals as
appropriate;

(4) increasing public awareness of the needs and issues affecting deaf and
hard of hearing individuals;

(5) working with State and local agencies to ensure access for deaf and hard
of hearing individuals to safety and emergency services;

(6) developing a referral service for deaf and hard of hearing individuals;

(7) serving as an information clearinghouse on the needs and issues
affecting deaf and hard of hearing individuals;

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(8) working to increase access for deaf and hard of hearing individuals to
educational, health, and social opportunities;

(9) working with private organizations, the federal government, and other
units of State government to promote economic development for deaf and hard of hearing
individuals;

(10) working to eliminate the underemployment and unemployment of deaf
and hard of hearing individuals;

(11) providing a network through which services provided by State and
[and]federal programs serving deaf and hard of hearing individuals can be channeled;

(12) promoting compliance with State, local, and federal laws and policies
individuals;protecting and serving deaf and hard of hearing

(13) BOARDPROVIDING APPROPRIATE STAFF TO ASSIST THE IN
DUTIES;CARRYING OUT ITS AND

(14) BOARD APPOINTMENTS.PROVIDING A NOMINATION PROCESS FOR

(c) The Office shall hold at least two public town hall meetings each year to
receive public comments on:

(1) the quality of State services and programs affecting deaf and hard of
hearing individuals;

(2) the functions and operations of the Office; and

(3) any other issues that affect deaf and hard of hearing individuals,
including those specified in subsection (b) of this section.

(d) The Office shall:

(1) help facilitate the appropriate delivery of State, local, and other public
services to deaf and hard of hearing individuals;

(2) advise other units of State government and the General Assembly on
the needs of deaf and hard of hearing individuals;

(3) subject to appropriations in the State budget, provide any reasonable
resources that any other unit of State government requests to serve or assist deaf and hard
of hearing individuals; and

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(4) to the greatest extent possible, in order to avoid any duplication of
effort, coordinate with other units of the State and the federal government the services
provided to deaf and hard of hearing individuals.

9–2407.

On or before January 1, 2002, and annually thereafter, the Director shall submit to
the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of this article, to the members of the General
Assembly, a report on:

(1) the activities of the Office;

(2) the status of programs and services facilitated by the Office;

(3) BOARD, INCLUDING:THE ACTIVITIES OF THE

(I) THE NUMBER OF SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETERS
BOARD;LICENSED BY THE AND

(II) BOARD,THE NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS RECEIVED BY THE
COMPLAINT;DIFFERENTIATED BY THE TYPE OF

[(3)] (4) statistics on compliance with State and federal laws related to
deaf and hard of hearing individuals; and

[(4)] (5) recommendations for improved delivery of services for deaf and
hard of hearing individuals.

9–2408. RESERVED.

9–2409. RESERVED.

PART III. SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETERS.

9–2410.

THERE STATE BOARD SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETERSIS A OF IN THE
OFFICE.

9–2411.

(A) (1) THE BOARD CONSISTS OF SEVEN MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE
GOVERNOR.

(2) OF MEMBERS:THE SEVEN

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) MARYLAND ASSOCIATIONONE SHALL BE A MEMBER OF THE
DEAF;OF THE

(II) INDIVIDUAL;ONE SHALL BE A DEAFBLIND

(III) POTOMAC CHAPTERONE SHALL BE A MEMBER OF THE OF
REGISTRY INTERPRETERS DEAFTHE OF THE FOR THE WHO HOLDS A LICENSE
PART;UNDER THIS AND

(IV) BOARDFOUR SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE BY
REGULATION.

(3) (I) THE GOVERNOR SHALL APPOINT THE MEMBERS FROM A
LIST OF NAMES SUBMITTED FROM A NOMINATION PROCESS ESTABLISHED BY THE
OFFICE.

(II) TO PRACTICABLE,THE EXTENT THE MEMBERS APPOINTED
UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL REFLECT THE RACIAL AND GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY OF
STATE.THE

(B) EACH SHALL:MEMBER

(1) STATE;BE A RESIDENT OF THE AND

(2) AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE.BE PROFICIENT IN

(C) BEFORE OFFICE, BOARDTAKING EACH MEMBER APPOINTED TO THE
ARTICLE I, § 9SHALL TAKE THE OATH OR AFFIRMATION REQUIRED BY OF THE
MARYLAND CONSTITUTION.

(D) (1) THE BOARD 2 YEARS,TERM OF A MEMBER IS BEGINNING ON THE
APPOINTMENT.DATE OF

(2) AT TERM,THE END OF A A MEMBER CONTINUES TO SERVE UNTIL
QUALIFIES.A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND

(3) A MEMBER APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN SERVES ONLY
FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND
QUALIFIES.

(4) A MEMBER MAY NOT SERVE MORE THAN THREE CONSECUTIVE
TERMS.FULL

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(E) (1) THE GOVERNOR INCOMPETENCE,MAY REMOVE A MEMBER FOR
MISCONDUCT, DUTIES, CAUSE.NEGLECT OF OR OTHER SUFFICIENT

(2) THE GOVERNOR WHO:SHALL REMOVE A MEMBER

(I) CEASES TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS UNDER WHICH THE
(A) SECTION;MEMBER WAS APPOINTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS OR

(II) 50%FAILS TO ATTEND AT LEAST OF THE REGULARLY
BOARD 12–MONTH PERIOD.SCHEDULED MEETINGS OF THE DURING ANY

9–2412.

(A) (1) THE BOARD SHALL ELECT THE CHAIR FROM AMONG ITS
MEMBERS.

(2) THE 2 YEARS.TERM OF THE CHAIR IS

(B) (1) THE BOARD SHALL MEET AT LEAST ONCE EACH QUARTER AT THE
BOARD.TIMES AND PLACES SET BY THE

(2) THE BOARD OF:MAY CALL SPECIAL MEETINGS AT THE REQUEST

(I) CHAIR;THE

(II) DIRECTOR;THE OR

(III) BOARD.A MAJORITY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE

(C) A BOARDMAJORITY OF THE MEMBERS THEN SERVING ON THE IS A
QUORUM.

(D) A BOARD:MEMBER OF THE

(1) BOARD;MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

9–2413.

TO PART, BOARD MAY:ENFORCE THE PROVISIONS OF THIS THE

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) OFFICE,IN CONSULTATION WITH THE CONDUCT INVESTIGATIONS
TITLE,AND HOLD HEARINGS ON ANY MATTER COVERED BY THIS AT ANY TIME AND
STATE;PLACE IN THE

(2) OATHS;ADMINISTER

(3) WITNESSES;EXAMINE AND

(4) EVIDENCE.RECEIVE

9–2414.

(A) THE BOARD SHALL:

(1) LICENSE QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE
SERVICES;INTERPRETATION

(2) JULY 1, 2024,ON OR BEFORE ESTABLISH AND PUBLISH
SETTINGS;LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETING IN ALL

(3) PROVIDE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO LICENSE APPLICANTS AND
PERSONS;OTHER INTERESTED

(4) INTERPRETING,PROMOTE THE PROFESSION OF SIGN LANGUAGE
INCLUDING PROVIDING WORKSHOPS AND TRAININGS TO RAISE PUBLIC AWARENESS
DEVELOPMENT;AND TO FACILITATE PROFESSIONAL AND

(5) DIRECTOR.PERFORM ANY OTHER DUTIES ASSIGNED BY THE

(B) IN ADDITION TO ANY DUTIES SET FORTH ELSEWHERE IN THIS SUBTITLE
OFFICE, BOARD SHALL:AND WITH THE SUPPORT OF THE THE

(1) PART;ADMINISTER THE PROVISIONS OF THIS

(2) PROCEEDINGS;ADOPT BYLAWS FOR THE CONDUCT OF ITS

(3) SEAL;ADOPT A

(4) PROCEEDINGS;KEEP A RECORD OF ITS

(5) LICENSE;KEEP A FILE ON EACH APPLICANT FOR A

(6) REGISTRY;ESTABLISH A VISITING SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETER

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(7) INCLUDE:DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN A WEBSITE THAT SHALL

(I) A PORTAL TO ACCEPT LICENSE APPLICATIONS AND
DOCUMENTATION, COMPLAINTS,RELATED AND REGISTRATIONS OF VISITING SIGN
INTERPRETERS;LANGUAGE AND

(II) A PUBLICLY SEARCHABLE DATABASE OF SIGN LANGUAGE
INTERPRETERS; AND

(8) SOURCES.REASONABLY SEEK ADDITIONAL FUNDING

(C) IN ELSEWHERE, BOARDADDITION TO ANY POWERS SET FORTH THE MAY
PART.ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THE PROVISIONS OF THIS

9–2415.

(A) THE BOARD MAY ESTABLISH CRITERIA FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF
PORTFOLIOS AND SEPARATE REQUIREMENTS IN THE FOLLOWING SPECIALIST
AREAS:

(1) SETTINGS;LEGAL

(2) SETTINGS;MEDICAL

(3) SETTINGS;BEHAVIORAL HEALTH

(4) AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGELANGUAGE PAIRS OTHER THAN AND
ENGLISH;SPOKEN

(5) INTERPRETING;CONFERENCE

(6) LOW–VISIONTACTILE AND SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION
SERVICES;

(7) INTRALINGUISTIC TRANSLATIONS AND SIGN LANGUAGE
INTERPRETATION; AND

(8) ANY OTHER SPECIALIST AREAS DETERMINED TO BE NECESSARY
BOARD.BY THE

(B) THE BOARD TO:SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS

(1) GOVERN SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES PROVIDED
SETTING;IN A VIDEO REMOTE INTERPRETING

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) ESTABLISH LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION STANDARDS OF
STATE;INTERPRETING AGENCIES THAT DO BUSINESS IN THE

(3) ALLOW DEAF AND HARD OF HEARING INDIVIDUALS TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THEY PREFER SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES
BEING PROVIDED IN A VIDEO REMOTE INTERPRETING SETTING OR THROUGH
IN–PERSON INTERPRETING; AND

(4) PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN A VIDEO
SETTING.REMOTE INTERPRETING

9–2416.

(A) THERE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETERS FUND.IS A

(B) THE BOARD SHALL SET BY REGULATION REASONABLE FEES FOR THE
SERVICES.ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES AND OTHER

(C) THE BOARD SHALL PUBLISH IN ITS RULES AND REGULATIONS THE FEE
BOARD.SCHEDULE SET BY THE

(D) (1) THE BOARD SHALL PAY ALL FEES COLLECTED UNDER THIS PART
COMPTROLLER.TO THE

(2) THE COMPTROLLER FUND.SHALL DISTRIBUTE THE FEES TO THE

(E) THE FUND SHALL BE USED EXCLUSIVELY TO COVER THE ACTUAL
DOCUMENTED DIRECT AND INDIRECT COSTS OF FULFILLING THE STATUTORY AND
BOARDREGULATORY DUTIES OF THE AS PROVIDED BY THE PROVISIONS OF THIS
PART, INCLUDING:

(1) THE DEVELOPMENT OF PROGRAMS THAT WILL ASSIST IN THE
INTERPRETERS, INCLUDING:LICENSURE OF MARGINALIZED

(I) BLACK, INDIGENOUS, PERSONS COLOR (BIPOC)OR OF
SIGNERS;

(II) SIGNERS;HERITAGE AND

(III) INDIVIDUALS;DEAF

(2) THE DEVELOPMENT OF MENTORSHIP PROGRAMS FOR
SERVICES;INDIVIDUALS WHO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION AND

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(3) APPLICANTS EXPERIENCING FINANCIAL HARDSHIP IN THE
FEES.PAYMENT OF LICENSING

(F) THE DIRECTOR FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(G) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(H) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) FUND (B)REVENUE DISTRIBUTED TO THE UNDER SUBSECTION OF
SECTION;THIS

(2) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET FOR THE
AND

(3) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(I) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINVESTMENT EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED
GENERAL FUND STATE.TO THE OF THE

(J) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

9–2417.

THE BOARD POWERS, DUTIES,EXERCISES ITS AND FUNCTIONS SUBJECT TO
GOVERNOR.THE AUTHORITY OF THE

9–2418.

(A) EXCEPT PART,AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS AN INDIVIDUAL ~~MUST~~
BOARD MAY:SHALL BE LICENSED BY THE BEFORE THE INDIVIDUAL

(1) PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN THE
STATE; OR

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) PUBLIC,REPRESENT TO THE BY DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES OR
DESIGNATION,USE OF A TITLE OR THAT THE INDIVIDUAL IS AUTHORIZED TO
STATE.PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN THE

(B) THIS WHO:SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO AN INDIVIDUAL

(1) PROVIDES SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES AS PART
OF A SUPERVISED INTERNSHIP OR PRACTICUM FOR AN ACCREDITED INSTITUTION
OF HIGHER EDUCATION AND DOES NOT PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION
SETTINGS:SERVICES IN THE FOLLOWING

(I) SETTING,A BEHAVIORAL HEALTH UNLESS THE INDIVIDUAL
INTERPRETER;IS ACCOMPANIED BY A LICENSED SIGN LANGUAGE

(II) SETTING,AN EMERGENCY MEDICAL UNLESS THE
INTERPRETER;INDIVIDUAL IS ACCOMPANIED BY A LICENSED SIGN LANGUAGE

(III) SETTING;A LEGAL OR

(IV) SETTING,A SCHOOL UNLESS THE INDIVIDUAL IS
INTERPRETER;ACCOMPANIED BY A LICENSED SIGN LANGUAGE

(2) PROVIDES SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES AS PART
VIDEO RELAY SERVICE;OF A

(3) HOLDS A NATIONALLY OR REGIONALLY RECOGNIZED
CERTIFICATION IN SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETING AND DOES NOT PROVIDE SIGN
STATE 80LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN THE FOR MORE THAN HOURS
YEAR, INDIVIDUAL:EACH CALENDAR IF THE

(I) SELF–CERTIFIES EXEMPTION;ELIGIBILITY FOR THIS

(II) BOARDNOTIFIES THE OF EACH SIGN LANGUAGE
10INTERPRETING ASSIGNMENT WITHIN DAYS AFTER COMPLETING THE
ASSIGNMENT; AND

(III) SATISFIES ANY OTHER CRITERIA ESTABLISHED BY THE
BOARD;

(4) PROVIDES SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES AS AN
UNCOMPENSATED VOLUNTEER AND IN A SETTING IN WHICH A SIGN LANGUAGE
LAW;INTERPRETER IS NOT OTHERWISE REQUIRED BY

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(5) PROVIDES SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES TO
PREVENT UNDUE HARM IN THE EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY UNTIL A LICENSED SIGN
AVAILABLE;LANGUAGE INTERPRETER BECOMES OR

(6) INTERPRETS BETWEEN A PAIR OF SIGN LANGUAGES FOR WHICH
CERTIFICATION.THERE IS NO NATIONALLY OR REGIONALLY RECOGNIZED

9–2419.

AN BOARD:APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT TO THE

(1) A COMPLETED APPLICATION ON THE FORM PROVIDED BY THE
BOARD;

(2) PAYMENT OF A NONREFUNDABLE APPLICATION FEE SET BY THE
BOARD;

(3) PROOF OF A VALID NATIONALLY OR REGIONALLY RECOGNIZED
BOARD;CERTIFICATION OR OTHER CERTIFICATION APPROVED BY THE AND

(4) DOCUMENTATION OF SATISFACTORY COMPLETION OF ANY OTHER
BOARD.QUALIFICATIONS ESTABLISHED BY THE

9–2420.

(A) SUBJECT SECTION, BOARDTO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS THE MAY
WAIVE ANY REQUIREMENT OF THIS PART FOR AN APPLICANT WHO IS LICENSED TO
STATE.PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN ANOTHER

(B) THE BOARD MAY GRANT A WAIVER UNDER THIS SECTION ONLY IF THE
APPLICANT:

(1) BOARD:PAYS TO THE

(I) THE NONREFUNDABLE APPLICATION FEE SET BY THE
BOARD; AND

(II) BOARD;THE LICENSE FEE SET BY THE AND

(2) THAT,PROVIDES SATISFACTORY EVIDENCE AT THE TIME THE
STATE,APPLICANT WAS LICENSED IN THE OTHER THE APPLICANT WAS REQUIRED
TO MEET THE QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSURE THAT WERE SUBSTANTIALLY
STATE.EQUIVALENT TO THE QUALIFICATIONS IN THE

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) THE BOARD MAY GRANT A WAIVER UNDER THIS SECTION ONLY IF THE
STATE IN WHICH THE APPLICANT IS LICENSED WAIVES THE QUALIFICATIONS OF
STATE STATELICENSEES OF THE TO A SIMILAR EXTENT AS THE WAIVES THE
STATE.QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS LICENSED IN THAT

9–2421.

(A) IF PART,AN APPLICANT QUALIFIES FOR A LICENSE UNDER THIS THE
BOARD THAT:SHALL SEND THE APPLICANT A NOTICE THAT STATES

(1) LICENSE;THE APPLICANT HAS QUALIFIED FOR A AND

(2) BOARD, BOARDON RECEIPT OF THE LICENSE FEE SET BY THE THE
APPLICANT.WILL ISSUE A LICENSE TO THE

(B) ON FEE, BOARDPAYMENT OF THE LICENSE THE SHALL ISSUE A LICENSE
PART.TO EACH APPLICANT WHO MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(C) A NONTRANSFERABLE.LICENSE ISSUED UNDER THIS SECTION IS

(D) A BOARDLICENSEE SHALL NOTIFY THE IN WRITING OF ANY CHANGE IN
LICENSEE’S 60 CHANGE.THE NAME OR ADDRESS WITHIN DAYS AFTER THE

9–2422.

WHILE EFFECT,A LICENSE IS IN IT AUTHORIZES THE LICENSEE TO PROVIDE
OF:SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES WITHIN THE SCOPE

(1) THE NATIONALLY OR REGIONALLY RECOGNIZED CERTIFICATION
LICENSEE;OR OTHER APPROVED CERTIFICATION HELD BY THE OR

(2) BOARDANY OTHER LIMITATIONS DETERMINED BY THE ON THE
LICENSE.

9–2423.

(A) UNLESS LICENSEE,RENEWED BY A A LICENSE EXPIRES ON THE DATE
BOARD.SET BY THE

(B) BEFORE EXPIRES,A LICENSE THE LICENSEE PERIODICALLY MAY
TERM, LICENSEE:RENEW THE LICENSE FOR AN ADDITIONAL IF THE

(1) LICENSED;OTHERWISE IS ENTITLED TO BE

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(2) BOARD BOARD;PAYS TO THE THE LICENSE FEE SET BY THE AND

(3) BOARDSUBMITS TO THE A RENEWAL APPLICATION ON THE FORM
BOARD PROVIDES.THAT THE

(C) THE BOARD SHALL RENEW THE LICENSE OF EACH LICENSEE WHO
SECTION.MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(D) THE BOARD MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO REQUIRE A LICENSEE TO
DEMONSTRATE CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCY AS A CONDITION OF
RENEWAL.

9–2424.

THE BOARD SHALL REINSTATE THE LICENSE OF AN INDIVIDUAL WHO FOR ANY
INDIVIDUAL:REASON HAS FAILED TO RENEW THE LICENSE IF THE

(1) BOARDAPPLIES TO THE FOR REINSTATEMENT OF THE LICENSE
BOARD;WITHIN THE PERIOD OF TIME ESTABLISHED BY THE

(2) § 9–2423MEETS THE RENEWAL REQUIREMENTS OF OF THIS
SUBTITLE; AND

(3) BOARDPAYS TO THE THE RENEWAL FEE AND THE
BOARD.REINSTATEMENT FEE SET BY THE

9–2425.

(A) SUBJECT SECTION, BOARDTO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS THE SHALL
ISSUE A PROVISIONAL LICENSE TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION
HAS:SERVICES TO AN INDIVIDUAL WHO

(1) TAKEN AND PASSED A NATIONALLY OR REGIONALLY RECOGNIZED
BOARD;KNOWLEDGE AND ETHICS EXAM OR OTHER EXAM APPROVED BY THE AND

(2) BOARD.SATISFIED OTHER REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED BY THE

(B) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE A PROVISIONAL LICENSE TO AN INDIVIDUAL
WHO:

(1) (A) SECTION,EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS
LICENSE;OTHERWISE QUALIFIES FOR A

– 17 –

PAGE 18
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) BOARDSUBMITS TO THE AN APPLICATION ON THE FORM THAT
BOARD PROVIDES;THE

(3) DOES NOT PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES
(C) SECTION;IN A SETTING SET FORTH IN SUBSECTION OF THIS AND

(4) BOARD BOARD.PAYS TO THE THE APPLICATION FEE SET BY THE

(C) WHILE EFFECT,A PROVISIONAL LICENSE IS IN THE LICENSE HOLDER
MAY NOT PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN THE FOLLOWING
SETTINGS:

(1) SETTING;A LEGAL

(2) MENTORSHIP,EXCEPT AS A PART OF A FORMAL A MEDICAL
SETTING, UNLESS THE INDIVIDUAL IS ACCOMPANIED BY A LICENSED SIGN
INTERPRETER;LANGUAGE OR

(3) MENTORSHIP,EXCEPT AS A PART OF A FORMAL A BEHAVIORAL
SETTING,HEALTH UNLESS THE INDIVIDUAL IS ACCOMPANIED BY A LICENSED SIGN
INTERPRETER.LANGUAGE

(D) A PROVISIONAL LICENSE TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE
INTERPRETATION SERVICES EXPIRES ON THE THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF ITS
DATE.EFFECTIVE

(E) SUBJECT SUBSECTION, BOARDTO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS THE MAY
2–YEAR TERM,RENEW A PROVISIONAL LICENSE FOR ONE ADDITIONAL IF THE
HOLDER:LICENSE

(1) BOARDDEMONSTRATES TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE THE
INDIVIDUAL’S CONTINUED EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE NATIONALLY OR REGIONALLY
RECOGNIZED CERTIFICATION OR TO MEET OTHER QUALIFICATIONS ESTABLISHED
BOARD PART;BY THE TO QUALIFY FOR A LICENSE UNDER THIS

(2) BOARDSUBMITS TO THE A RENEWAL APPLICATION ON THE FORM
BOARD PROVIDES;THAT THE AND

(3) BOARD BOARD.PAYS TO THE THE RENEWAL FEE SET BY THE

(F) AN INDIVIDUAL MAY NOT HOLD A PROVISIONAL LICENSE FOR MORE
5 YEARS.THAN

– 18 –

PAGE 19
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

9–2426.

(A) SUBJECT § 9–2428 SUBTITLE,TO THE HEARING PROVISIONS OF OF THIS
BOARD APPLICANT, LICENSEE,THE MAY DENY A LICENSE TO ANY REPRIMAND ANY
LICENSE,SUSPEND OR REVOKE A REQUIRE A LICENSEE TO ATTEND AN
TRAINING,EDUCATIONAL COURSE OR OR IMPOSE A PENALTY ON A LICENSEE IF THE
LICENSEE:APPLICANT OR

(1) DECEPTIVELY:FRAUDULENTLY OR

(I) OBTAINS OR ATTEMPTS TO OBTAIN A LICENSE FOR THE
ANOTHER;APPLICANT OR LICENSEE OR FOR

(II) LICENSE;USES A OR

(III) PROVIDES SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES
LICENSE;AFTER THE EXPIRATION OF A

(2) IS DEEMED LEGALLY INCOMPETENT TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE
SERVICES;INTERPRETATION

(3) DISHONEST, UNETHICAL, IMMORAL,ENGAGES IN OR
CONDUCT;UNPROFESSIONAL

(4) USES ALCOHOL OR DRUGS BEFORE OR DURING A SIGN LANGUAGE
ASSIGNMENT,INTERPRETING TO THE EXTENT OF BEING UNFIT TO PROVIDE SIGN
SERVICES;LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION

(5) ADVERTISES BY MEANS OF KNOWINGLY FALSE OR DECEPTIVE
STATEMENTS;

(6) UNITED STATES STATE,UNDER THE LAWS OF THE OR OF ANY IS
CONVICTED OF A FELONY OR A MISDEMEANOR THAT IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE
FITNESS AND QUALIFICATION OF THE APPLICANT OR LICENSEE TO PROVIDE SIGN
SERVICES;LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION

(7) IS THE SUBJECT OF DISCIPLINARY OR OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE
INDIVIDUAL’SACTION TAKEN AGAINST THE CERTIFICATION OR LICENSE TO
STATE;PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN ANOTHER OR

(8) VIOLATES ANY PROVISION OF THIS PART OR ANY REGULATION
BOARD PART.ADOPTED BY THE UNDER THIS

– 19 –

PAGE 20
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) (1) A LICENSEE WHOSE LICENSE IS SUSPENDED OR REVOKED UNDER
(A) BOARDSUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION SHALL RETURN THE LICENSE TO THE IN
BOARD.THE MANNER REQUIRED BY THE

(2) AN (1)INDIVIDUAL WHO VIOLATES PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION MAY BE SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL DISCIPLINARY ACTION BY THE
BOARD.

9–2427.

(A) EXCEPT (D) SECTION,AS PROVIDED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
BOARD § 9–2426SHALL COMMENCE DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS UNDER OF THIS
BOARDSUBTITLE ON RECEIPT OF A COMPLAINT SUBMITTED TO THE AGAINST AN
LICENSEE.APPLICANT OR A

(B) (1) A COMPLAINT SHALL STATE SPECIFICALLY THE FACTS ON WHICH
BASED.THE COMPLAINT IS

(2) IF THE COMPLAINT IS MADE BY ANY PERSON OTHER THAN A
BOARD,MEMBER OF THE THE COMPLAINT SHALL BE MADE UNDER OATH BY THE
COMPLAINT.PERSON WHO SUBMITS THE

(C) (1) IF BOARDTHE FINDS THAT A COMPLAINT ALLEGES FACTS THAT
§ 9–2426 SUBTITLE,ARE ADEQUATE GROUNDS FOR ACTION UNDER OF THIS THE
BOARD § 9–2428SHALL ACT ON THE COMPLAINT IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
SUBTITLE.

(2) IF BOARD (1)THE DOES NOT MAKE A FINDING UNDER PARAGRAPH
SUBSECTION, BOARD COMPLAINT.OF THIS THE SHALL DISMISS THE

(D) (1) THE BOARD MAY USE A RESTORATIVE JUSTICE PROGRAM IN LIEU
§ 9–2426 SUBTITLE.OF TAKING FINAL ACTION ON A COMPLAINT UNDER OF THIS

(2) THE BOARD SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS FOR THE USE OF
SUBSECTION.RESTORATIVE JUSTICE PROGRAMS UNDER THIS

9–2428.

(A) (1) EXCEPT § 10–226AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN OF THIS ARTICLE
PART, BOARD § 9–2426AND THIS BEFORE THE TAKES ANY FINAL ACTION UNDER OF
SUBTITLE,THIS IT SHALL GIVE THE INDIVIDUAL AGAINST WHOM THE ACTION IS
BOARD.CONTEMPLATED AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A HEARING BEFORE THE

– 20 –

PAGE 21
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(2) A TIME,HEARING SHALL BE SET WITHIN A REASONABLE NOT
6 MONTHS, BOARD LICENSEE.EXCEEDING AFTER THE BRINGS CHARGES AGAINST A

(B) THE BOARD SHALL GIVE NOTICE AND HOLD THE HEARING IN
TITLE 10, SUBTITLE 2 ARTICLE.ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

(C) THE BOARD MAY ADMINISTER OATHS IN CONNECTION WITH ANY
SECTION.PROCEEDING UNDER THIS

(D) AT 30 HEARING,LEAST DAYS BEFORE THE THE HEARING NOTICE AND A
BE:COPY OF THE COMPLAINT SHALL

(1) INDIVIDUAL;SERVED PERSONALLY ON THE OR

(2) INDIVIDUAL.MAILED TO THE LAST KNOWN ADDRESS OF THE

(E) THE COUNSEL.INDIVIDUAL MAY BE REPRESENTED AT THE HEARING BY

(F) IF, NOTICE,AFTER DUE THE INDIVIDUAL AGAINST WHOM THE ACTION IS
APPEAR, BOARDCONTEMPLATED FAILS OR REFUSES TO THE MAY NEVERTHELESS
MATTER.HEAR AND DECIDE ON THE

9–2429.

(A) THE BOARD SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS FOR THE REACTIVATION OF
§ 9–2426THE LICENSE OF AN INDIVIDUAL WHOSE LICENSE IS SUSPENDED UNDER
REQUIRE, MINIMUM:OF THIS SUBTITLE THAT AT A

(1) THAT THE INDIVIDUAL DEMONSTRATE COMPLIANCE WITH ALL
ORDER;TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SUSPENSION AND

(2) BOARD.PAYMENT OF A REACTIVATION FEE SET BY THE

(B) THE BOARD SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS FOR THE REINSTATEMENT OF
§ 9–2426THE LICENSE OF AN INDIVIDUAL WHOSE LICENSE IS REVOKED UNDER OF
REQUIRE, MINIMUM:THIS SUBTITLE THAT AT A

(1) BOARDA PERIOD OF TIME SET BY THE DURING WHICH THE
REINSTATEMENT;INDIVIDUAL MAY NOT APPLY FOR AND

(2) BOARD.PAYMENT OF A REINSTATEMENT FEE SET BY THE

9–2430.

– 21 –

PAGE 22
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) EXCEPT LAW,AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED BY AN INDIVIDUAL WHO
ACQUIRES CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION IN THE COURSE OF PROVIDING SIGN
LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES MAY NOT BE REQUIRED TO DISCLOSE THE
PROCEEDING, TRIAL,INFORMATION IN ANY LEGAL OR INVESTIGATION BEFORE A
GOVERNMENTAL UNIT WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF ALL PARTIES TO THE SIGN
INTERPRETATION.LANGUAGE

(B) AN INDIVIDUAL PROVIDING SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION
SERVICES HOLDS THE SAME LEGAL PRIVILEGE AS THE INDIVIDUAL RECEIVING THE
SERVICES.SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION

9–2431.

(A) EXCEPT SUBTITLE,AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS AN UNLICENSED
NOT:INDIVIDUAL MAY

(1) PROVIDE, PROVIDE,ATTEMPT TO OR OFFER TO PROVIDE SIGN
STATELANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN THE UNLESS LICENSED BY THE
BOARD;

(2) INDIVIDUAL;USE OR ATTEMPT TO USE THE LICENSE OF ANOTHER
OR

(3) LICENSE.IMPERSONATE ANOTHER INDIVIDUAL WHO HOLDS A

(B) AN (A)INDIVIDUAL MAY REPORT A VIOLATION OF SUBSECTION OF THIS
BOARD 180SECTION TO THE WITHIN DAYS AFTER THE DATE OF THE ALLEGED
IS:VIOLATION IF THE INDIVIDUAL

(1) A PARTY TO THE PROVISION OF THE SIGN LANGUAGE
SERVICES;INTERPRETATION

(2) VIOLATION;HARMED AS A RESULT OF THE ALLEGED OR

(3) THE GUARDIAN OF THE DEAF OR HARD OF HEARING INDIVIDUAL
SERVICES,RECEIVING THE SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION IF THE DEAF OR
HARD OF HEARING INDIVIDUAL IS A MINOR OR HAS BEEN APPOINTED A GUARDIAN
§ 13–705 ESTATESOF THE PERSON OF A DISABLED PERSON UNDER OF THE AND
TRUSTS ARTICLE.

(C) (1) IF BOARD (A)THE FINDS A VIOLATION OF SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, BOARDTHE SHALL PROVIDE WRITTEN NOTICE TO THE INDIVIDUAL
FOUND.SPECIFYING THE VIOLATION

– 22 –

PAGE 23
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(2) THE BOARD $500MAY IMPOSE A FINE NOT TO EXCEED FOR EACH
VIOLATION.

(3) IN DETERMINING THE AMOUNT OF THE FINE IMPOSED UNDER
(2) SUBSECTION, BOARDPARAGRAPH OF THIS THE SHALL CONSIDER THE SEVERITY
OF THE VIOLATION AND WHETHER THE VIOLATION CONSTITUTES A PATTERN OF
CONDUCT.IMPROPER

9–2432.

UNLESS AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS PART TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE
SERVICES, PUBLIC,INTERPRETATION AN INDIVIDUAL MAY NOT REPRESENT TO THE
TITLE, SERVICES, METHODS, PROCEDURES,BY USE OF A BY DESCRIPTION OF OR OR
OTHERWISE, THAT THE INDIVIDUAL IS AUTHORIZED TO PROVIDE SIGN LANGUAGE
STATE.INTERPRETATION SERVICES IN THE

9–2433.

(A) A PERSON WHO RECEIVES SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES
OR IS A WITNESS TO SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION SERVICES FROM AN
UNLICENSED INDIVIDUAL IN VIOLATION OF THIS PART MAY BRING AN ACTION IN A
COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION SEEKING AN INJUNCTION TO PROHIBIT THE
SERVICES.INDIVIDUAL FROM PROVIDING SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION

(B) (1) IN (A)A JUDICIAL PROCEEDING UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, IT IS NOT NECESSARY TO SHOW THAT THE PERSON WAS INDIVIDUALLY
VIOLATION.INJURED BY THE

(2) IF THE COURT FINDS THAT AN INDIVIDUAL HAS VIOLATED THIS
SUBTITLE, SHALL:THE COURT

(I) ENJOIN THE INDIVIDUAL FROM PROVIDING SIGN LANGUAGE
CORRECTED;INTERPRETATION SERVICES UNTIL THE VIOLATION IS AND

(II) BOARD.REPORT THE FINDING TO THE

(3) AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS FOUND BY THE COURT TO HAVE VIOLATED
THIS PART IS JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY LIABLE TO THE INDIVIDUAL WHO BROUGHT
$1,000THE ACTION FOR AN AMOUNT NOT EXCEEDING PER INCIDENT AND ALL
ATTORNEY’S COSTS.FEES AND COURT

9–2434.

– 23 –

PAGE 24
Ch. 270 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

AN INDIVIDUAL WHO VIOLATES ANY PROVISION OF THIS PART IS GUILTY OF A
TO:MISDEMEANOR AND ON CONVICTION IS SUBJECT

(1) OFFENSE, $500FOR A FIRST A FINE NOT EXCEEDING OR
90 DAYS, BOTH;IMPRISONMENT NOT EXCEEDING OR AND

(2) VIOLATION, $500FOR EACH SUBSEQUENT A FINE NOT LESS THAN
$1,000 90 DAYS, BOTH.AND NOT EXCEEDING OR IMPRISONMENT NOT EXCEEDING OR

9–2435.

SUBJECT TO THE EVALUATION AND REESTABLISHMENT PROVISIONS OF THE
MARYLAND PROGRAM EVALUATION ACT, PART III OF THIS SUBTITLE AND ALL
REGULATIONS ADOPTED UNDER THIS PART SHALL TERMINATE AND BE OF NO
JULY 1, 2033.EFFECT AFTER

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) Beginning January 1, 2025, an individual who provides sign language
interpretation services in the State shall meet the requirements of Title 9, Subtitle 24, Part
III of the State Government Article, as enacted by Section 3 of this Act.

(b) The State Board of Sign Language Interpreters shall develop and implement
a public awareness campaign to inform the public and relevant professionals of the
licensing requirements of this Act.

(c) Until set by the State Board of Sign Language Interpreters by regulation, the
fee for initial licensure under this Act is $150.

SECTION 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the member of the State
Board of Sign Language Interpreters who is required to have a license issued under this
Act and who is appointed to the Board under § 9–2411 of the State Government Article, as
enacted by Section 3 of this Act, before January 1, 2025, may satisfy the license requirement
by holding a current nationally or regionally recognized certification, as defined in § 9–2401
of the State Government Article, as enacted by Section 3 of this Act, or by meeting other
criteria established by the Board.

SECTION 6. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the terms of the initial
members of the State Board of Sign Language Interpreters appointed by the Governor shall
expire as follows:

(1) three members in 2026;

(2) two members in 2027; and

– 24 –

PAGE 25
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 270

(3) two members in 2028.

SECTION 7. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, for fiscal year 2025, the
Governor shall include in the annual budget bill an appropriation of $100,000 for the State
Board of Sign Language Interpreters for the purpose of implementing the provisions of this
Act.

SECTION 8. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before January 1, 2026,
and annually thereafter for 2 years, the Maryland Judiciary shall report to the Senate
Committee on Education, Energy, and the Environment and the House Health and
Government Operations Committee, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government
Article, on:

(1) the number of cases in Maryland courts in which a sign language
interpreter was requested or required;

(2) the average number of days needed to secure a sign language
interpreter for a case;

(3) the number of cases postponed in order to secure a sign language
interpreter; and

(4) the number of cases in which a sign language interpreter was used who,
due to an emergency situation, was not licensed under Title 9, Subtitle 24, Part III of the
State Government Article, as enacted by Section 3 of this Act.

SECTION ~~8.~~ 9. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 25 –