PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 787

Chapter 787

(House Bill 348)

AN ACT concerning

Baltimore County – School Board Nominating Commission – Vacancy
Procedures

FOR the purpose of requiring the Baltimore County School Board Nominating Commission
to hold a public hearing on the selection of a nominee for a single vacancy on the
Baltimore County Board of Education in a certain manner under certain
circumstances; requiring the Commission to make publicly available on its website
live video streaming of certain public hearings and certain archived video recordings;
authorizing the Commission to retain and reactivate the applications of certain
candidates for certain vacancies on the county board; and generally relating to the
Baltimore County School Board Nominating Commission.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 3–2B–03
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

3–2B–03.

(a) (1) There is a Baltimore County School Board Nominating Commission.

(2) The purpose of the Commission is to select nominees to be
recommended to the Governor as qualified candidates for appointment to the Baltimore
County Board of Education.

(I)(3) The Commission shall hold at least three public hearings, each
in a different councilmanic district, on the selection of nominees beforeMULTIPLE
recommending to the Governor nominees for appointment to the county board.

(II) FOR BOARD,A SINGLE VACANCY ON THE COUNTY THE
COMMISSION SHALL HOLD PUBLIC MEETINGS IN THE FOLLOWING MANNER ON THE
GOVERNORSELECTION OF A NOMINEE BEFORE RECOMMENDING TO THE THE
BOARD:NOMINEE FOR APPOINTMENT TO THE COUNTY

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 787 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

1. FOR DISTRICT,A VACANCY IN A COUNCILMANIC AT
DISTRICT;LEAST ONE PUBLIC MEETING IN THAT COUNCILMANIC OR

2. FOR A VACANCY FOR A MEMBER APPOINTED AT
LARGE, AT LEAST ONE PUBLIC MEETING AT THE COUNTY BOARD ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICES.

(III) THE COMMISSION SHALL MAKE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE ON
WEBSITE:ITS

1. LIVE MEETING;VIDEO STREAMING OF EACH PUBLIC
AND

2. A COMPLETE AND UNEDITED ARCHIVED VIDEO
RECORDING OF EACH PUBLIC MEETING FOR WHICH LIVE STREAMING WAS MADE
1 SUBPARAGRAPH.AVAILABLE UNDER ITEM OF THIS

(b) (1) The Commission consists of 19 members who shall be appointed in
accordance with this subsection.

(2) The Commission shall reflect the rich cultural, geographic, ethnic, and
racial diversity of Baltimore County.

(3) The Governor, in consultation with the County Executive of Baltimore
County, shall appoint eight members, one from each legislative district that lies in whole
or in part in Baltimore County.

(4) The County Executive of Baltimore County shall appoint one member
from the county at large.

(5) The following organizations each shall appoint one member:

(i) The Teachers Association of Baltimore County;

(ii) The Baltimore County Chamber of Commerce;

(iii) The PTA Council of Baltimore County, Inc.;

(iv) Towson University;

(v) The League of Women Voters of Baltimore County;

(vi) The Baltimore County Branch of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 787

(vii) The Baltimore County Public Schools’ Special Education
Citizens’ Advisory Committee;

(viii) The Baltimore County Student Councils;

(ix) The Council of Administrative and Supervisory Employees; and

(x) The Education Support Personnel of Baltimore County.

(c) (1) The County Executive of Baltimore County shall designate one of the
Commission’s members as chair of the Commission.

(2) The term of the chair of the Commission is 4 years.

(3) The term of a member of the Commission is 4 years.

(d) The Baltimore County Public Schools shall provide staff for the Commission.

(e) Beginning October 1, 2018, for each nomination for a vacancy on the county
board, the Commission shall submit to the Governor a list of nominees that contains:

(1) At least two names for each vacancy; or

(2) If there are fewer than two applicants for a vacancy, the number of
names that is equal to the number of applicants for the vacancy.

(F) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
COMMISSION MAY RETAIN AND REACTIVATE THE APPLICATION OF A CANDIDATE
2FOR A VACANCY ON THE COUNTY BOARD FOR UP TO YEARS FROM THE DATE THE
COMMISSION GOVERNORSUBMITTED THE LIST OF NOMINEES TO THE FOR THE
CONSIDERED.VACANCY FOR WHICH THE APPLICANT WAS INITIALLY

(2) (I) THE COMMISSION MAY REACTIVATE THE APPLICATION OF
(1)A CANDIDATE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION ONLY WITH THE
APPLICANT.CONSENT OF THE

(II) TO REACTIVATE AN APPLICATION UNDER THIS
SUBSECTION, COMMISSION SHALL:THE

1. WITHIN 14 DAYS AFTER THE DATE OF THE NEW
VACANCY, SEND A NOTICE TO THE APPLICANT REQUESTING CONSENT TO
APPLICANT’S APPLICATION;REACTIVATE THE AND

2. WITHIN 14 DAYS AFTER THE DATE THE APPLICANT
1 SUBPARAGRAPH,RECEIVED THE NOTICE UNDER ITEM OF THIS RECEIVE THE
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 787 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

APPLICANT.CONSENT OF THE

[(f)] (G) (1) Absent an extraordinary circumstance, the Governor shall
appoint a member to the county board from the list provided by the Commission.

(2) If the Governor elects not to appoint a member from a list submitted by
the Commission, the Governor shall return the list to the Commission and request that the
Commission submit the names of additional qualified candidates.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 4 –