PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 236

Chapter 236

(House Bill 309)

AN ACT concerning

State Employee Rights and Protections – Personnel Actions and Harassment –
Complaints

FOR the purpose of authorizing a certain applicant or employee to file a certain complaint
within a certain period of time alleging harassment by an employer; increasing the
period of time for a certain applicant or employee to file a certain complaint alleging
certain prohibited personnel actions; and generally relating to State employee rights
and protections.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 20–606(a)(5)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 5–211
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

20–606.

(a) An employer may not:

(5) engage in harassment of an employee.

Article – State Personnel and Pensions

5–211.

(a) An applicant or employee subject to this subtitle may file with the head of the
complaint:principal unit a written

(1) subtitle;that alleges a violation of § 5–208 of this OR

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 236 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) § 20–606(A)(5)THAT ALLEGES HARASSMENT IN VIOLATION OF OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.THE

[this subtitle] (A)(1)(b) A complaint under SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION
[30 days] 1must be filed within after the complainant first knew of or reasonablyYEAR
should have known of the alleged violation that is the basis for the complaint.

(C) A SUBSECTION(A)(2)COMPLAINT UNDER OF THIS SECTION MUST BE
2FILED WITHIN YEARS AFTER THE ALLEGED VIOLATION THAT IS THE BASIS FOR THE
COMPLAINT.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 2 –