PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 28

Chapter 28

(House Bill 379)

AN ACT concerning

Commissioner of Financial Regulation – Name and Organization of Office

FOR the purpose of establishing the name of a certain office under the Commissioner of
Financial Regulation in the Maryland Department of Labor as the Office of Financial
Regulation; designating a certain appointee of the Commissioner of Financial
Regulation as the Deputy Commissioner for Depository Activities; requiring the
Commissioner of Financial Regulation to appoint a Deputy Commissioner for
Non–Depository Activities; and generally relating to the name and organization of
the office under the Commissioner of Financial Regulation in the Maryland
Department of Labor.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 7–201
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Financial Institutions
Section 1–101
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Financial Institutions
Section 2–101, 2–103, 2–110, 2–113(c), 2–119, 11–611, and 12–105.1(a)(5)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Real Property
Section 7–105.14(i)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 8–403(22)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 28 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Business Regulation

7–201.

[theThere is a State Collection Agency Licensing Board in the Office of
of]Commissioner Financial Regulation in the Department.

Article – Financial Institutions

1–101.

(a) In this article, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following
words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Address” means post office address, including, if applicable, street and
number, municipal area or county, state, and, if outside of the United States, country.

(c) “Any state” means:

(1) Any state, possession, or territory of the United States;

(2) The District of Columbia; or

(3) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(d) “Banking institution” means an institution that is incorporated under the
laws of this State as a State bank, trust company, or savings bank.

(e) “Charter” has the meaning stated in § 1–101 of the Corporations and
Associations Article.

(f) “Commercial bank” means an institution that is incorporated under the laws
of this State as a State bank or trust company.

(g) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Financial Regulation in the
Maryland Department of Labor.

(h) “County” means a county of this State and, unless otherwise indicated,
Baltimore City.

(i) “Credit union” means a credit union that is incorporated under the laws of this
State as a credit union.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 28

(j) “Financial institution” means any financial institution of the type supervised
under this article, whether or not State–chartered.

(k) (1) “Foreign bank” means any financial institution or other institution that
engages in banking activities that are usual in connection with the business of banking in
the nations in which the institution is organized or operates.

(2) “Foreign bank” does not include a bank organized under the laws of any
state or a national banking association that has its headquarters in any state.

(l) “Includes” or “including” means includes or including by way of illustration
and not by way of limitation.

(m) “Mail” means to deposit in the United States mail, postage prepaid.

(n) “Mortgage” includes a deed of trust that secures a debt or the performance of
an obligation.

(o) “Municipal area” means a municipal corporation or an unincorporated city,
town, or village.

(p) “National banking association” means an institution that is incorporated
under federal law as a bank.

(q) “Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry” or “NMLS” means a
multistate uniform licensing system developed and maintained by the Conference of State
Bank Supervisors, or by a subsidiary or an affiliate of the Conference of State Bank
Supervisors, that may be used for the licensing and registration of persons required to be
licensed or registered under this article or the Commercial Law Article.

(r) “Other–state bank” means a bank chartered and primarily regulated by
another state.

(s) “Other–state credit union” means a credit union chartered and primarily
regulated by another state.

(t) “Person” means an individual, receiver, trustee, guardian, personal
representative, fiduciary, or representative of any kind and any partnership, firm,
association, corporation, or other entity.

(u) “Political subdivision” means:

(1) A county or municipal corporation of this State; and

(2) Unless the context requires otherwise, a special taxing district of this
State.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 28 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(v) “Real property” includes any interest in real property.

2–101.

(A) There is a Commissioner of Financial Regulation in the Maryland Department
of Labor.

(B) THERE OFFICE FINANCIAL REGULATIONIS AN OF UNDER THE
COMMISSIONER MARYLAND DEPARTMENT LABOR.IN THE OF

(C) THE COMMISSIONER OFFICE FINANCIALIS THE HEAD OF THE OF
REGULATION.

2–103.

(a) With the approval of the Secretary of Labor, the Commissioner shall appoint
[a]:

(1) A DEPOSITORY ACTIVITIES;Deputy Commissioner FOR AND

(2) A DEPUTY COMMISSIONER NON–DEPOSITORY ACTIVITIES.FOR

[Commissioner serves] COMMISSIONERS(b) The Deputy APPOINTED UNDER
(A) [isat the pleasure of the Commissioner andSUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION SERVE
employee]an of the Commissioner’s office.ARE EMPLOYEES

[The in:](c) Deputy Commissioner shall have at least 5 years of experience

[State or] THE(1) or national banking regulation or management;
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER DEPOSITORY ACTIVITIES 5FOR SHALL HAVE AT LEAST
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN THE REGULATION OR MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS.

[The(2) regulation or management of the business of making loans by
article] THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONERpersons of the type regulated by this FOR
NON–DEPOSITORY ACTIVITIES 5SHALL HAVE AT LEAST YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN
THE REGULATION OR MANAGEMENT OF PERSONS REQUIRED TO BE LICENSED OR
COMMERCIAL LAW ARTICLE.REGISTERED UNDER THIS ARTICLE OR THE

[Commissioner is] COMMISSIONERS(d) The Deputy APPOINTED UNDER
(A) entitled to the salary provided in the StateSUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION ARE
budget.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 28

article[, the]:(e) In addition to any other powers and duties set forth in this

(1) THE DEPOSITORY ACTIVITIESDeputy Commissioner has theFOR
powers and duties of the Commissioner:

[(1)] (I) To the extent delegated by the Commissioner;

[(2)] (II) If the office of the Commissioner is vacant; and

[(3)] (III) If for any reason the Commissioner is unable to perform the
office;duties of the AND

(2) THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER NON–DEPOSITORYFOR
ACTIVITIES COMMISSIONERHAS THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TO THE EXTENT
COMMISSIONER.DELEGATED BY THE

2–110.

[Commissioner] COMMISSIONERS(a) The Commissioner and DeputyTHE
§ 2–103 shall devote full time to their duties.APPOINTED UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE

[Commissioner] COMMISSIONERS(b) The Commissioner and DeputyTHE
§ 2–103 may not:APPOINTED UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE

(1) Be an officer or director of any State banking institution or national
banking association, or in any entity engaged in the business of making loans; or

(2) Engage in any other business relating to banks and financial
institutions or lending.

2–113.

(c) For fiscal year 2001 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Governor shall include
[Division] OFFICEin the annual budget bill an appropriation to the of Financial
Regulation funding the positions necessary to implement the investigative and enforcement
powers authorized under this subtitle.

2–119.

For fiscal year 2009 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Governor shall include in the
[Division] OFFICEannual budget bill an appropriation to the of Financial Regulation for
the purpose of regulating banking institutions and credit unions.

11–611.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 28 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

For fiscal year 2006 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Governor shall include in the
[Division] OFFICEannual budget bill an appropriation to the of Financial Regulation for
[implement of]the purpose of creating necessary positions to the provisions CARRY OUT
this subtitle.

12–105.1.

(a) A person may provide check cashing services without obtaining a license
under this subtitle by registering each year with the Commissioner under this section if
the person:

(5) Has conspicuously posted a notice with the following information, in 48
point type or larger, at each business location at which the person provides check cashing
services:

(i) The fees charged for check cashing services; and

[the of](ii) How to contact the Office of Commissioner Financial
Regulation with comments or complaints; and

Article – Real Property

7–105.14.

[the(i) (1) There is a Foreclosed Property Registry Fund in the Office of
of]Commissioner Financial Regulation.

Article – State Government

8–403.

This subtitle applies only to the following governmental activities and units:

[the of](22) Financial Regulation, Office of Commissioner (§ 2–101 of the
Financial Institutions Article);

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That it is the intent of the General
Assembly that any changes under Section 1 of this Act to § 2–101 of the Financial
Institutions Article or other statutory provisions referencing the name of the office
established under the Commissioner of Financial Regulation in the Maryland Department
of Labor shall be construed as a nonsubstantive revision that does not affect the powers
and duties of the Commissioner or the office.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 28

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 7 –