PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 238

Chapter 238

(House Bill 377)

AN ACT concerning

Montgomery County – Village of Friendship Heights Special Taxing District
– Procurement

MC 15–23

FOR the purpose of increasing the threshold amount above which the Friendship Heights
Village Council is prohibited from entering into a certain contract without a
competitive bidding process; authorizing the village council to enter into a certain
contract that exceeds the threshold amount without a competitive bidding process if
the procurement is in response to an emergency; and generally relating to
procurement in the Village of Friendship Heights special taxing district.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
The Public Local Laws of Montgomery County
Section 66–10
Article 16 – Public Local Laws of Maryland
(2004 Edition and September 2022 Supplement, as amended)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article 16 – Montgomery County

Sec. 66–10.

[The] EXCEPT (B) SECTION,(a) AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
“Friendship Heights Village Council” may not expend for material or work a sum exceeding
[$5,000] $20,000 without having first advertised the specifications therefor and inviting
bids for it, after which the village council may purchase whatever material or make contract
for work or have the work done by employed labor or otherwise, as it may deem best.

(1) IN SUBSECTION, “EMERGENCY”(b) THIS MEANS AN OCCURRENCE OR
THAT:CONDITION

(I) THE FORESEE;VILLAGE COUNCIL REASONABLY COULD NOT
AND

(II) REQUIRES AN ACTION TO AVOID OR MITIGATE SERIOUS
HEALTH, SAFETY, WELFARE.DAMAGE TO PUBLIC OR

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 238 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) THE COUNCIL, VOTE,VILLAGE BY MAJORITY MAY ENTER INTO A
$20,000CONTRACT EXCEEDING WITHOUT SEEKING COMPETITIVE BIDS IF THE
EMERGENCY.PROCUREMENT IS IN RESPONSE TO AN

(C) The village council may engage in cooperative procurement with other
governmental entities in Montgomery County.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 2 –