PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 435

Chapter 435

(House Bill 389)

AN ACT concerning

Department of Agriculture – State ~~Ombudsman~~ Specialist for Value–Added
Agriculture

FOR the purpose of establishing the State ~~Ombudsman~~ Specialist for Value–Added
Agriculture as a position in the Department of Agriculture; and generally relating to
the State ~~Ombudsman~~ Specialist for Value–Added Agriculture.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–106
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–2201 and 2–2202 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 22. State
~~Ombudsman~~ Specialist for Value–Added Agriculture”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Agriculture

2–106.

(a) The following positions and units are included within the Department:

(1) The Maryland Agricultural Fair Board;

(2) The Chief of Weights and Measures;

(3) The State Chemist;

(4) The State Veterinarian;

(5) The State Board of Veterinary Medical Examiners;

(6) The State Soil Conservation Committee;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 435 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(7) The Maryland Agricultural Commission;

(8) The Maryland Horse Industry Board;

[and](9) The Maryland Winery and Grape Growers’ Advisory Board;

Commission;(10) The Seafood Marketing Advisory AND

(11) THE STATE ~~OMBUDSMAN~~ SPECIALIST VALUE–ADDEDFOR
AGRICULTURE.

STATE(b) The Secretary shall appoint the State Chemist, State Veterinarian,
~~OMBUDSMAN~~ SPECIALIST VALUE–ADDED AGRICULTURE, and Chief of WeightsFOR
and Measures.

(c) The Department also includes any other position or unit which is declared
within the Department pursuant to law.

SUBTITLE 22. STATE ~~OMBUDSMAN~~ SPECIALIST VALUE–ADDEDFOR
AGRICULTURE.

2–2201.

IN SUBTITLE, “VALUE–ADDED AGRICULTURE”:THIS

(1) MEANS THE ALTERATION OR ENHANCEMENT OF A RAW
PRODUCT, LIVESTOCK,AGRICULTURAL INCLUDING OR AN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE
~~PRODUCT’S~~ SERVICE’SIN A WAY THAT INCREASES THE PRODUCT OR WORTH TO A
FARMER, PRODUCER, PROCESSOR;CONSUMER AND BRINGS MORE REVENUE TO A OR
AND

(2) INCLUDES ENTERPRISES,ALL INCLUDING THOSE PROVIDING
ACTIVITIES,EQUINE IN WHICH AN AGRICULTURAL BUSINESS OR THE
BUSINESS’S ALTERED, MARKETED,AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES ARE
PRODUCED, FARMER, PRODUCER,OR PROCESSED IN A WAY THAT ADDS INCOME TO A
PROCESSOR.OR

2–2202.

(A) THE STATE ~~OMBUDSMAN~~ SPECIALIST VALUE–ADDEDFOR
AGRICULTURE SHALL:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 435

(1) SERVE AS THE PRIMARY POINT OF CONTACT FOR INDIVIDUALS
IN, IN, VALUE–ADDEDENGAGING OR INTERESTED IN ENGAGING AGRICULTURE IN
STATE;THE

(2) PROVIDE STATEINFORMATION REGARDING AND FEDERAL
VALUE–ADDED AGRICULTURE;REGULATIONS RELATING TO

(3) ACT STATEAS A LIAISON BETWEEN AND FEDERAL PARTNERS
VALUE–ADDED AGRICULTURE;INVOLVED IN AND

(4) PERFORM ANY OTHER DUTY OR FUNCTION THAT SUPPORTS
VALUE–ADDED STATE, SECRETARY.AGRICULTURE IN THE AS REQUIRED BY THE

(B) THE STATE ~~OMBUDSMAN~~ SPECIALIST VALUE–ADDEDFOR
AGRICULTURE STATE BUDGET.SHALL RECEIVE A SALARY AS PROVIDED IN THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That a Position Identification
Number (PIN) shall be created in the Department of Agriculture for the State ~~Ombudsman~~
Specialist for Value–Added Agriculture.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, during the first year after
the initial appointment of the State ~~Ombudsman~~ Specialist for Value–Added Agriculture,
the priority function of the ~~Ombudsman~~ Specialist is to focus on implementing the
recommendations of the Task Force to Study the Feasibility of Return to State Meat Process
Inspection.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 3 –