PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 675

Chapter 675

(House Bill 402)

AN ACT concerning

Kent County – Board of Education – Student Member

FOR the purpose of altering the membership of the Kent County Board of Education to
include a student member; providing for the initial term of the student member of
the county board; and generally relating to the membership of the Kent County
Board of Education.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 3–801 through 3–803
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

3–801.

[five]:(a) The Kent County Board consists of

(1) FIVE members;VOTING AND

(2) ONE MEMBER.NONVOTING STUDENT

(1)(b) A candidate elected to the county board shall be a resident and
registered voter of Kent County.

(2) Any member who no longer resides in Kent County may not continue
as a member of the board.

(c) (1) The incumbent members of the Kent County Board who holdVOTING
office on July 1, 2010, shall hold office until their successors are elected and qualify.

[Members] VOTING(2) of the Kent County Board shall beMEMBERS
elected from Kent County at large as follows:

(i) Two members of the county board shall be elected in theVOTING
November general election of 2012 and every 4 years thereafter; and

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 675 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) Three members of the county board shall be elected inVOTING
the November general election of 2014 and every 4 years thereafter.

(D) (1) THE SHALL:STUDENT MEMBER

(I) BE KENT COUNTY;A BONA FIDE RESIDENT OF

(II) BE A REGULARLY ENROLLED JUNIOR OR SENIOR AT THE
KENT COUNTY PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL ELECTED BY THE HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS OF
(2) SUBSECTION;THE COUNTY IN ACCORDANCE WITH PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(III) BE A MEMBER OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT ~~ASSOCIATION~~
~~REPRESENTATIVE;~~

(IV) SERVE 1 JULY 1FOR YEAR BEGINNING ON AFTER THE
MEMBER;ELECTION OF THE STUDENT AND

(V) ADVISE THE COUNTY BOARD ON THE THOUGHTS AND
KENT COUNTY SCHOOLS.FEELINGS OF STUDENTS IN THE PUBLIC

(2) (I) THE PROCESS FOR APPLYING AND ELECTING A STUDENT AS
PARAGRAPH.A STUDENT MEMBER SHALL BE AS SET FORTH IN THIS

(II) 1. AN ELIGIBLE STUDENT SHALL SUBMIT AN
APPLICATION TO THE COUNTY BOARD ON A FORM PROVIDED BY THE COUNTY BOARD
JANUARY 1 YEAR.BEGINNING ON OF EACH

2. EACH APPLICANT SHALL DELIVER A SPEECH TO THE
KENT COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL.STUDENT BODY OF

(III) 1. ANY HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT IN THE COUNTY MAY
VOTE DIRECTLY FOR THE STUDENT MEMBER CANDIDATES IN AN ELECTION HELD
MAY 1 YEAR.BEFORE EACH

2. THE STUDENT MEMBER CANDIDATE THAT RECEIVES
MEMBER.THE HIGHEST NUMBER OF VOTES SHALL BECOME THE STUDENT

(IV) NOTICE OF THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTION FOR STUDENT
COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTMEMBER SHALL BE REPORTED TO THE ON OR BEFORE
MAY 1 YEAR.EACH

(3) IF UNABLE, INELIGIBLE,THE STUDENT MEMBER IS OR
MEMBER’S OFFICE,DISQUALIFIED TO COMPLETE THE STUDENT TERM OF THE THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 675

COUNTY BOARD SHALL APPOINT A QUALIFIED STUDENT TO SERVE FOR THE
TERM.REMAINDER OF THE

(4) THE ATTEND:STUDENT MEMBER SHALL

(I) ~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~JUNE~~~~AND~~ ~~MEETINGS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~BOARD~~
~~MEMBER’S~~ ~~JULY~~ ~~1;~~~~BEFORE~~ ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STUDENT~~ ~~TERM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~ON~~

~~(II)~~ THE MARYLAND ASSOCIATION BOARDS EDUCATIONOF OF
ORIENTATION;NEW STUDENT BOARD MEMBER AND

~~(III)~~ (II) ALL BOARD.REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE COUNTY

(5) ~~UNLESS~~ ~~INVITED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ATTEND~~ ~~BY~~ ~~AN~~ ~~AFFIRMATIVE~~ ~~VOTE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~
~~BOARD,~~ THE~~MAJORITY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~THE~~ STUDENT MEMBER MAY NOT ATTEND
BOARD.AN EXECUTIVE SESSION OF THE COUNTY

[(d)] (E) (I)(1) Each member serves for a term of 4 yearsVOTING
beginning on January 1 after his election and until a successor is elected and qualifies.

(II) The terms of members are staggered and elections shall be held
as provided in subsection (c) of this section.

(2) Any vacancy on the county board shall be filledOF A VOTING MEMBER
by a qualified individual appointed by the County Commissioners of Kent County to serve
until a successor is elected and qualifies at the general election next following the creation
of the vacancy and for which the deadline for the filing of candidates has not expired.

(3) An individual may serve for more than 2 consecutive terms.

[(e)] (F) (1) The State Board may remove a member of the county board for:

(i) Immorality;

(ii) Misconduct in office;

(iii) Incompetency; or

(iv) Willful neglect of duty.

(2) Before removing a member, the State Board shall send the member a
copy of the charges against him and give him an opportunity within 10 days to request a
hearing.

(3) If the member requests a hearing within the 10–day period:

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 675 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) The State Board promptly shall hold a hearing, but a hearing
may not be set within 10 days after the State Board sends the member a notice of the
hearing; and

(ii) The member shall have an opportunity to be heard publicly
before the State Board in his own defense, in person or by counsel.

(4) A member removed under this subsection has the right to a de novo
review of the removal by the Circuit Court for Kent County.

3–802.

At its first meeting at the beginning of each year, the county board shall elect a
president and a vice president from among its members.VOTING

3–803.

(a) The chairman of the county board is entitled to receive $2,400 annually as
compensation and the other members are entitled to receive $2,000 each annuallyVOTING
as compensation.

(b) The chairman and the other members are entitled to the allowancesVOTING
for travel and other expenses provided in the Kent County budget.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the term of the initial student
member of the Kent County Board of Education elected in accordance with § 3–801 of the
Education Article as enacted by Section 1 of this Act shall begin on July 1, 2024.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 4 –