PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

Chapter 792

(House Bill 437)

AN ACT concerning

Prince George’s County Public Schools – Alterations to Title of Chief Executive
Officer and Establishment of Office of Integrity and Compliance ~~–~~
~~Establishment~~

PG 501–23

FOR the purpose of changing the title of the Chief Executive Officer of the Prince George’s
County public school system to the County Superintendent of the Prince George’s
County public school system; establishing the Office of Integrity and Compliance in
the Prince George’s County public school system to evaluate, examine, investigate,
report, and make recommendations on certain issues related to the Prince George’s
County public school system’s effectiveness, productivity, efficiency, accountability,
internal controls, and compliance with applicable laws, policies, and standards;
requiring the County Council of Prince George’s County to select and appoint an
Integrity and Compliance Officer to publish certain information on the Office of
Integrity and Compliance’s website, establish and follow certain confidentiality
procedures, report certain violations, coordinate with the Prince George’s County
public school system to develop a certain work plan, administer an oath or
affirmation, take an affidavit or deposition, issue a subpoena, and submit an annual
budget for the Office of Integrity and Compliance to the Prince George’s County
Board of Education; requiring an employee, official, or vendor of the Prince George’s
County public school system to provide certain information to the Integrity and
Compliance Officer; prohibiting a Prince George’s County public school system
employee, vendor, or employee of a vendor from being retaliated against, penalized,
or threatened with retaliation for certain actions; authorizing a court of competent
jurisdiction to compel compliance with a certain order or subpoena or compel
testimony or the production of evidence; requiring the county board to include in its
annual budget proposal certain amounts for the Office of Integrity and Compliance;
~~transferring~~ ~~the~~ ~~functions,~~ ~~powers,~~ ~~and~~ ~~duties~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~Internal~~ ~~Audit~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~
~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ ~~public~~ ~~school~~ ~~system~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~Integrity~~ ~~and~~
~~Compliance~~ ~~on~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~date;~~ and generally relating to alterations to the title of the
Chief Executive Officer of the Prince George’s County public school system and the
establishment of the Office of Integrity and Compliance in the Prince George’s
County public school system.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 4–102, 4–120, 4–125.1, 4–201.1, 4–202(a), 4–204(a), 4–206(a), 4–402,
4– 403, and 6–201(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 4–404
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

4–102.

(a) (1) Except in Baltimore City, the county superintendent is the executive
officer, secretary, and treasurer of the county board.

(2) (i) In Baltimore City, the Chief Executive Officer of the Baltimore
City Board of School Commissioners is the executive officer, secretary, and treasurer of the
Board of School Commissioners.

(ii) The Chief Executive Officer shall have the powers and duties
imposed under this article.

(iii) The Chief Executive Officer is not a public officer under the
Constitution or the laws of the State.

[(i)(3) In Prince George’s County, the county superintendent is the Chief
Executive Officer of the Prince George’s County public school system.

(ii) The Chief Executive Officer is the executive officer, secretary, and
treasurer of the county board.

(iii) The Chief Executive Officer shall have the powers and duties
imposed under this article.

(iv) The Chief Executive Officer is not a public officer under the
Constitution or the laws of the State.

(4)] A county superintendent is not a public officer under the Constitution or
the laws of the State.

(b) Unless the tenure or salary or the administration of the office of the county
superintendent is under consideration, the county superintendent or the county
superintendent’s designee shall attend all meetings of the county board and its committees.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

(c) The county superintendent may advise on any question under consideration
but may not vote.

4–120.

[Except if] IF(a) as provided in subsection (c) of this section, a county board
considers it practicable, it shall consolidate schools.

[Except each] EACH(b) as provided in subsection (c) of this section, county board
shall arrange for the transportation of students to and from consolidated schools.

[(c) In Prince George’s County, the Chief Executive Officer shall have the authority
to:

(1) Consolidate schools if considered practicable; and

(2) Arrange for the transportation of students to and from consolidated
schools.]

4–125.1.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Certified county–based business participation” has the meaning stated
in § 10A–101 of the Code of Public Local Laws of Prince George’s County.

(3) “Certified county–based minority business participation” has the
meaning stated in § 10A–101 of the Code of Public Local Laws of Prince George’s County.

[“Chief(4) Executive Officer” means the superintendent of the Prince
George’s County public school system as defined in § 4–102(a)(3) of this subtitle.

(5)] “County–based business” has the meaning stated in § 10A–101 of the
Code of Public Local Laws of Prince George’s County.

[(6)] (5) “County–based minority business enterprise” has the meaning
stated in § 10A–101 of the Code of Public Local Laws of Prince George’s County.

[(7)] (6) “County–based small business” has the meaning stated in §
10A–101 of the Code of Public Local Laws of Prince George’s County.

[(8)] (7) “County board” means the Prince George’s County Board of
Education.

[(9)] (8) (i) “Procurement” means the process of buying, leasing,
lease–purchasing, or otherwise obtaining supplies, services, or construction.
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) “Procurement” includes all functions that relate to the process of
obtaining supplies, services, or construction, including:

1. Description of requirements;

2. Selection and solicitation of sources; and

3. Preparation, award, and execution of a contract.

[(10)] (9) “Program” means the Certified County–Based Business
Participation Program that may be established under this section.

(b) This section applies only in Prince George’s County.

[Chief Officer](c) The county board, after consultation with the Executive
COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT, may establish and implement a Certified County–Based
Business Participation Program to be used in county board procurement.

(d) If the county board exercises the authority granted in subsection (c) of this
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTsection, the county board and the Executive
shall:

(1) Consult with the Prince George’s County Council, or its agencies or
agents, on the establishment and implementation of the Program; and

(2) Establish goals and requirements for the Program that may include:

(i) Minimum percentages for certified county–based business
participation;

(ii) Utilization of county–based small businesses;

(iii) Minimum goals and incentives for maximizing certified
county–based minority business participation; and

(iv) The goals established under § 4–125(d) of this subtitle.

(e) To achieve the designated goals of the Program, the county board and the
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTExecutive may use incentives and bonuses,
including:

(1) Mandatory set–aside procedures;

(2) Mandatory subcontracting procedures with reasonable waiver
provisions;

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

(3) The application of bonus points;

(4) The application of percentage points;

(5) Restrictive bidding;

(6) Restrictive price quotations;

(7) The reduction or waiver of bonding requirements; and

(8) Incentives to encourage maximum participation by:

(i) Certified county–based small businesses; and

(ii) A variety of different certified county–based businesses.

(f) If the county board exercises the authority granted in subsection (c) of this
section, the county board and the county council shall enter into a binding memorandum of
understanding outlining the county board’s goals and commitment to implementing the
Program.

(g) On or before December 1, 2015, and each year thereafter, the county board, after
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT,consultation with the Executive shall submit
a report to the Prince George’s County delegations to the House of Delegates and Senate of
Maryland, the Prince George’s County Council, and the Prince George’s County Executive,
in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, that specifies:

(1) The respective percentages and dollar amounts of certified county–based
business participation, certified county–based minority business participation, and certified
county–based small business participation in county board procurement for the previous
fiscal year; and

[Chief Officer](2) The efforts by the county board and the Executive
COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT in the previous fiscal year to encourage greater certified
county–based business participation, certified county–based minority business
participation, and certified county–based small business participation in county board
procurement.

4–201.1.

(a) This section applies only in Prince George’s County.

[Chief(b) Subject to the provisions of subsection (e) of this section, the Executive
Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT of the Prince George’s County public school system
shall be:

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) Selected by the County Executive in accordance with subsection (c) of
this section; and

(2) Appointed by the county board after agreement on contract terms
negotiated by the chair of the county board.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY(c) (1) The County Executive shall select a Executive
SUPERINTENDENT from a list of three nominees recommended by a search committee that
is comprised of:

(i) One member of the State Board, appointed by the State
Superintendent; and

(ii) Two residents of Prince George’s County, appointed by the
Governor.

(2) The search committee shall be chaired by a member selected by the State
Superintendent.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT(d) (1) The term of the Executive
is 4 years beginning on July 1.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT(2) The Executive continues
to serve until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

[Chief(3) By February 1 of the year in which a term ends, the Executive
Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT shall notify the County Executive and the county
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTboard if the Executive is a candidate for
reappointment.

(4) (i) In the year a term begins, the County Executive shall select a
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTExecutive between February 1 and June 1,
and the county board shall complete the appointment on or before June 30.

[Chief(ii) If the County Executive decides to select the incumbent
Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT,Executive the county board shall complete the
reappointment no later than March 1 of that year.

[Chief Officer](5) If the county board is unable to appoint a Executive
COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT by July 1 of the year a term begins, the provisions of
subsection (f) of this section apply.

[Chief Officer](e) (1) An individual may not be appointed as Executive
COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT unless the individual:

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

(i) Is eligible to be issued a certificate for the office by the State
Superintendent;

(ii) Has graduated from an accredited college or university; and

(iii) Has completed 2 years of graduate work at an accredited college
or university, including public school administration, supervision, and methods of teaching.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY(2) The appointment of the Executive
SUPERINTENDENT is not valid unless approved in writing by the State Superintendent.

(3) If the State Superintendent disapproves an appointment, the State
Superintendent shall give the reasons for disapproval in writing to the county board and the
County Executive.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY(f) If a vacancy occurs in the office of Executive
SUPERINTENDENT, the County Executive shall select and the county board shall appoint
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTan interim Executive to serve until July 1 after
the appointment.

[Chief(g) On notification of pending criminal charges against the Executive
Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT as provided under § 4–206 of this subtitle, the county
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTboard may suspend the Executive with pay
until the final disposition of the criminal charges.

4–202.

[(1) each] EACH(a) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection,
county superintendent is entitled to the compensation set by the county board.

[(2) In Prince George’s County, the Chief Executive Officer is entitled to the
board.]compensation set by the contract with the county

4–204.

[(1) acting] ACTING(a) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection,
under the rules and regulations of the county board, the county superintendent is responsible
for the administration of the superintendent’s office.

[(2) In Prince George’s County, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for
the administration of the office of the Chief Executive Officer, including hiring and setting
staff.]the salaries of the executive

4–206.

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(1) a] A(a) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, county
superintendent shall immediately notify the county board in writing of any criminal charges
that are punishable by a period of incarceration brought against the county superintendent.

[(2) In Prince George’s County, the Chief Executive Officer shall immediately
notify the County Executive and the county board in writing of any criminal charges that
Officer.]are punishable by a period of incarceration brought against the Chief Executive

4–402.

(a) In addition to the other powers granted to, and duties imposed on, a county
[Chief Officer] COUNTYsuperintendent under this article, the Executive
SUPERINTENDENT has the responsibilities and powers set forth in this section.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT(b) The Executive shall be
responsible for:

(1) The overall administration of the Prince George’s County public school
system;

(2) Subject to the provisions of Title 6 of this article, and after a budget is
submitted by the county board and approved by the County Council at the beginning of each
fiscal year, the day–to–day management and oversight of the fiscal affairs of the Prince
George’s County public school system, including the management of activities related to:

(i) Administration;

(ii) Mid–level administration;

(iii) Instructional salaries;

(iv) Textbooks and other classroom instructional supplies;

(v) Instructional costs;

(vi) Special education;

(vii) Student personnel services;

(viii) Health services;

(ix) Student transportation;

(x) Operation of plants and equipment;

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

(xi) Plant maintenance;

(xii) Fixed charges;

(xiii) Food services; and

(xiv) Capital planning and expenditures; and

(3) The development and implementation of the curriculum taught and the
instruction provided in the Prince George’s County public school system.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT:(c) The Executive

(1) Shall hire and set the salaries of a chief operating officer, a chief
financial officer, a chief academic officer, a chief of staff, a board liaison, and any other
[Chief Officer] COUNTYnecessary executive staff in the office of the Executive
SUPERINTENDENT; and

(2) May delegate the responsibilities established under subsection (b) of this
section to appropriately qualified individuals as determined and deemed necessary by the
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT.Executive

[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT(d) (1) The Executive shall enter
into a memorandum of understanding that relates to the provision of policy analysis and
advice to the county board with the following institutions of higher education:

(i) The University of Maryland, College Park Campus;

(ii) The University of Maryland Global Campus;

(iii) Bowie State University; and

(iv) Prince George’s Community College.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT(2) The Executive may
include additional institutions of higher education in the memorandum of understanding
required under paragraph (1) of this subsection.

4–403.

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the county board may not
implement a policy or take any action that contradicts the day–to–day management and
[Chiefoversight of the fiscal affairs of the Prince George’s County public school system by the
Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENTExecutive under this subtitle.

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) Except for personnel matters and appeals of personnel matters in accordance
with §§ 4–205(c)(2) and (3) of this title and 6–202 of this article, the county board shall
require a two–thirds vote of all voting members of the county board to take an action that is
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT.contrary to an action of the Executive

4–404.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) (I) “ABUSE” EMPLOYEE’SMEANS AN INTENTIONAL
POSITION:MISCONDUCT OR MISUSE OF AUTHORITY OR

1. INVOLVING PROPERTY OR FUNDS OF THE LOCAL
SCHOOL SYSTEM THAT IS IMPROPER OR DEFICIENT WHEN COMPARED TO CONDUCT
A PRUDENT PERSON WOULD CONSIDER REASONABLE UNDER THE SAME FACTS AND
CIRCUMSTANCES; OR

2. FOR THE PURPOSE OF FURTHERING IMPROPERLY
EMPLOYEE, MEMBER,THE PRIVATE INTERESTS OF THE A FAMILY OR A CLOSE
ASSOCIATE.PERSONAL OR BUSINESS

(II) “ABUSE” INCLUDES:

1. THEFT OR MISAPPROPRIATION OF PROPERTY OR
SYSTEM;FUNDS OF THE LOCAL SCHOOL AND

2. DESTRUCTION OR ALTERATION OF OFFICIAL
RECORDS.

(3) (I) “FRAUD” MEANS AN INTENTIONAL ACT OR ATTEMPT TO
OBTAIN SOMETHING OF VALUE FROM THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM OR ANOTHER
MISREPRESENTATION.PERSON THROUGH WILLFUL

(II) “FRAUD” INCLUDES A WILLFUL FALSE REPRESENTATION
FACT, CONDUCT,OF A MATERIAL WHETHER BY WORDS OR BY BY FALSE OR
ALLEGATIONS,MISLEADING OR BY CONCEALMENT OF THAT WHICH SHOULD HAVE
DISCLOSED, ACT,BEEN THAT CAUSES THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM TO OR FAIL TO
ACT, SYSTEM.TO THE DETRIMENT OF THE INTEREST OF THE LOCAL SCHOOL

(4) “LOCAL SYSTEM” PRINCE GEORGE’SSCHOOL MEANS THE
COUNTY SYSTEM.PUBLIC SCHOOL

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

(5) “OFFICE” OFFICE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCEMEANS THE OF AND
SYSTEM.IN THE LOCAL SCHOOL

(6) “VENDOR” MEANS A PARTY OBLIGATED BY CONTRACT OR
GOODS, SERVICES,SUBCONTRACT TO PROVIDE OR PROPERTY TO THE LOCAL
CONSIDERATION,SCHOOL SYSTEM FOR INCLUDING CONTRACTS AND
SUBCONTRACTS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES RELATED TO
CONSTRUCTION.

(7) (I) “WASTE” MEANS AN INAPPROPRIATE ACT OR OMISSION BY
AN EMPLOYEE WITH CONTROL OVER OR ACCESS TO LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM
PROPERTY OR FUNDS THAT UNREASONABLY DEPRIVES THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM
VALUE.OF

(II) “WASTE” INCLUDES MISMANAGEMENT OR OTHER
UNINTENTIONAL CONDUCT THAT IS DEFICIENT OR IMPROPER WHEN COMPARED TO
CONDUCT THAT A PRUDENT PERSON WOULD CONSIDER NECESSARY TO PRESERVE
THE VALUE OF PROPERTY OR FUNDS OF THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM UNDER THE
CIRCUMSTANCES.SAME FACTS AND

(B) THIS PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.SECTION APPLIES ONLY IN

(C) (1) THERE OFFICE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCEIS AN OF AND IN THE
SYSTEM.LOCAL SCHOOL

(2) (I) THE COUNTY COUNCIL PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTYOF
INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICER.SHALL SELECT AND APPOINT AN AND

(II) THE COUNTY COUNCIL INTEGRITYSHALL SELECT THE AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER SOLELY ON THE BASIS OF PROFESSIONAL ABILITY AND
INTEGRITY, AFFILIATION.PERSONAL WITHOUT REGARD TO POLITICAL

(III) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND MUST BE
AUDITING,QUALIFIED PROFESSIONALLY BY EXPERIENCE OR EDUCATION IN
OPERATIONS, MANAGEMENT.GOVERNMENT OR FINANCIAL

(D) (1) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICER 4TERM OF THE AND IS
APPOINTMENT.YEARS BEGINNING ON THE DATE OF

(2) AN INTEGRITY COMPLIANCEINDIVIDUAL MAY NOT SERVE AS AND
OFFICER TERMS.FOR MORE THAN THREE

(3) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND CONTINUES TO
APPOINTED.SERVE UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS
– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) IF INTEGRITY COMPLIANCEA VACANCY OCCURS FOR THE AND
OFFICER, COUNTY COUNCIL INTERIM INTEGRITYTHE SHALL APPOINT AN AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER TERM.TO SERVE FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE UNEXPIRED

(5) THE COUNTY COUNCIL INTEGRITYMAY REMOVE THE AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER COUNTYONLY THROUGH A MAJORITY VOTE OF THE
COUNCIL DUTY, MALFEASANCE, FELONY,FOR NEGLECT OF CONVICTION OF A OR
CAUSE.OTHER GOOD

(6) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND SHALL DISCHARGE
FULL–TIMETHE DUTIES OF OFFICE ON A BASIS AND WITH NO SECONDARY
INTEGRITY COMPLIANCEEMPLOYMENT OF ANY NATURE DURING THE AND
OFFICER’S TERM.

(E) (1) THE OFFICE SHALL:

(I) ASSIST COUNTY COUNCILTHE AND THE LOCAL SCHOOL
SYSTEM BY PROVIDING INDEPENDENT EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATIONS
TO:REGARDING OPPORTUNITIES

1. PRESERVE SYSTEM’STHE LOCAL SCHOOL
REPUTATION; AND

2. IMPROVE EFFECTIVENESS, PRODUCTIVITY,THE OR
PROGRAMS, POLICIES, PRACTICES,EFFICIENCY OF LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM AND
OPERATIONS;

(II) ENSURE PREVENTING,PUBLIC ACCOUNTABILITY BY
INVESTIGATING, FRAUD, WASTE,AND REPORTING INSTANCES OF AND ABUSE OF
SYSTEM;PROPERTY OR FUNDS OF THE LOCAL SCHOOL

(III) EXAMINE, EVALUATE, AND REPORT ON THE ADEQUACY AND
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS AND THEIR RELATED
ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL, TECHNOLOGY, POLICIES;AND OPERATIONAL AND

(IV) REPORT NONCOMPLIANCE WITH AND PROPOSE WAYS TO
LAW, POLICY,IMPROVE EMPLOYEE COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE AND ETHICAL
CONDUCT.STANDARDS OF

(2) IN RECOMMENDATIONS, OFFICE MAY:DEVELOPING THE

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

(I) CONDUCT INVESTIGATIONS,ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGETARY
ANALYSES, FINANCIAL, MANAGEMENT,AND OR PERFORMANCE AUDITS AND SIMILAR
REVIEWS;

(II) PROVIDE ADVISORIES;MANAGEMENT AND

(III) UTILIZE THE ASSISTANCE FROM ANY OTHER GOVERNMENT
OFFICE.AGENCY OR PRIVATE PARTY TO COMPLETE A PROJECT INITIATED BY THE

(3) WHEN APPLICABLE, INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERTHE AND
STANDARDS.SHALL COMPLY WITH GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENT AUDITING

(4) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERTHE AND SHALL PUBLISH ON THE
OFFICE’S WEBSITE, LOCATION:IN A READILY AVAILABLE

1. PERIODIC REPORTS THAT SUMMARIZE THE
ACTIVITIES, FINDINGS, RECOMMENDATIONS, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE
OFFICE; AND

2. ANY OFFICIAL WRITTEN COMMENTS OR RESPONSES
OFFERED BY THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM ADMINISTRATION WITH ANY REPORT
OFFICE.PUBLISHED BY THE

(II) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICER:AND

1. MAY RECORD, REPORT,NOT DISCLOSE ANY OR
RELATED INFORMATION THAT IS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE UNDER THE
PUBLIC INFORMATION ACT;

2. MAY PROVIDE AN ORAL REPORT IF APPROPRIATE
STANDARDS;UNDER GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENT AUDITING AND

3. SHALL ESTABLISH AND FOLLOW PROCEDURES FOR
SAFEGUARDING THE IDENTITY OF CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES AND PROTECTING
INFORMATION.PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL

(5) IF REASONABLE GROUNDS EXIST TO BELIEVE THAT A SERIOUS
FEDERAL, STATE, OCCURRED, INTEGRITYVIOLATION OF OR LOCAL LAW HAS THE
COMPLIANCE OFFICER TO:AND SHALL REPORT THE ALLEGATION

(I) AN AGENCY;APPROPRIATE LAW ENFORCEMENT

(II) THE STATE ETHICS COMMISSION; OR
– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(III) ANY OTHER AGENCY WITH JURISDICTION TO ENFORCE THE
LAW.

(F) (1) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND SHALL COORDINATE
WITH THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM TO DEVELOP A WRITTEN WORK PLAN AND
OFFICEESTABLISH PERIODIC GOALS AND PRIORITIES FOR THE BASED ON AN
RISKS.ASSESSMENT OF RELATIVE

(2) IN PLAN, INTEGRITYDEVELOPING THE WORK THE AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER FROM:SHALL TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION REQUESTS

(I) OFFICERS, ADMINISTRATORS, AND EMPLOYEES OF THE
SYSTEM;LOCAL SCHOOL

(II) ELECTED OFFICIALS; AND

(III) MEMBERS PUBLIC.OF THE

(3) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND SHALL MAKE THE
PUBLIC, PUBLICWRITTEN WORK PLAN AVAILABLE TO THE SUBJECT TO THE
INFORMATION ACT.

(G) (1) (I) ON INTEGRITY COMPLIANCEREQUEST FROM THE AND
OFFICER, AN EMPLOYEE OR OFFICIAL OF THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM SHALL
INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERPROVIDE PROMPTLY TO THE AND ANY
AVAILABLE DOCUMENT OR OTHER INFORMATION CONCERNING THE LOCAL SCHOOL
SYSTEM’S OPERATIONS, BUDGET, PROGRAMS, CONTRACTS.OR VENDOR

(II) 1. THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND SHALL
~~CHIEF~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~OFFICER~~ COUNTYNOTIFY THE COUNTY BOARD AND THE
SUPERINTENDENT IF ANY EMPLOYEE OR OFFICIAL OF THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM
FAILS TO PROVIDE ANY INFORMATION OR DOCUMENT REQUESTED UNDER THIS
PROMPTNESS.PARAGRAPH WITH REASONABLE

2. THE ~~CHIEF~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~COUNTY BOARD AND THE
~~OFFICER~~ COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT SHALL TAKE APPROPRIATE ADMINISTRATIVE
ACTION TO PRODUCE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM COMPLIANCE WITH A PENDING
INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICER.REQUEST FOR INFORMATION BY THE AND

(2) (I) ON INTEGRITY COMPLIANCEREQUEST FROM THE AND
OFFICER, A VENDOR OF THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM SHALL PROVIDE PROMPTLY TO
INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERTHE AND ANY AVAILABLE DOCUMENT OR OTHER

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

CONTRACT,INFORMATION CONCERNING ANY LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM VENDOR
CONTRACT.INCLUDING DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE PROCUREMENT OF THE

(II) 1. THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND SHALL
BOARD, ~~CHIEF~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~OFFICER~~ COUNTYNOTIFY THE COUNTY THE
SUPERINTENDENT, AND THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM IF ANY VENDOR FAILS TO
PROVIDE ANY INFORMATION OR DOCUMENT REQUESTED UNDER THIS PARAGRAPH
PROMPTNESS.WITH REASONABLE

2. THE ~~CHIEF~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~COUNTY BOARD AND THE
~~OFFICER~~ COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT SHALL TAKE APPROPRIATE ADMINISTRATIVE
OR CIVIL ACTION TO PRODUCE VENDOR COMPLIANCE WITH A PENDING REQUEST
INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICER.FOR INFORMATION BY THE AND

(H) (1) EACH LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM EMPLOYEE SHOULD REPORT ANY
FRAUD, WASTE, OFFICE.OR ABUSE TO THE

(2) A EMPLOYEE, VENDOR,LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM OR EMPLOYEE OF
PENALIZED,ANY VENDOR MAY NOT BE RETALIATED AGAINST OR OR THREATENED
PENALTY, TO,WITH RETALIATION OR FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION COOPERATING
WITH, INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICEROR IN ANY WAY ASSISTING THE AND IN
SECTION.CONNECTION WITH ANY ACTIVITY AUTHORIZED BY THIS

(3) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND MAY NOT DISCLOSE
FRAUD, WASTE,THE IDENTITY OF A PERSON THAT REPORTS AN ALLEGATION OF OR
UNLESS:ABUSE

(I) THE REPORTING PERSON CONSENTS TO DISCLOSURE OF
PERSON’S IDENTITY;THE

(II) DISCLOSURE IS REASONABLY NECESSARY TO COMPLETE AN
INVESTIGATION;AUDIT OR OR

(III) ANOTHER PERSON IS LEGALLY ENTITLED TO DISCLOSURE
PERSON.OF THE IDENTITY OF THE REPORTING

(I) (1) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND MAY ADMINISTER AN
OATH OR AFFIRMATION OR TAKE AN AFFIDAVIT FROM ANY PERSON IF NECESSARY
SECTION.TO PERFORM THE DUTIES UNDER THIS

(2) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND MAY ADMINISTER AN
OATH AND TAKE A DEPOSITION AND OTHER TESTIMONY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
FRAUD, WASTE, SYSTEM.INVESTIGATING OR ABUSE WITHIN THE LOCAL SCHOOL

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 792 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) THE INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERAND MAY SUBPOENA ANY
FRAUD, WASTE,PERSON OR EVIDENCE FOR THE PURPOSE OF INVESTIGATING OR
SYSTEM.ABUSE WITHIN THE LOCAL SCHOOL

(4) IF A PERSON FAILS TO COMPLY WITH A LAWFUL ORDER OR
SUBSECTION, INTEGRITYSUBPOENA ISSUED UNDER THIS ON PETITION OF THE AND
COMPLIANCE OFFICER, COMPEL:A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION MAY

(I) COMPLIANCE SUBPOENA;WITH THE ORDER OR OR

(II) TESTIMONY EVIDENCE.OR THE PRODUCTION OF

(J) (1) EACH INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICERYEAR THE AND SHALL
OFFICESUBMIT TO THE COUNTY BOARD A PROJECTED BUDGET FOR THE FOR THE
YEAR.UPCOMING FISCAL

(2) THE BOARD’SCOUNTY BOARD SHALL INCLUDE IN THE COUNTY
ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGET PROPOSAL THE AMOUNTS RECOMMENDED BY THE
INTEGRITY COMPLIANCE OFFICER OFFICEAND FOR THE FOR THE UPCOMING
YEAR.FISCAL

6–201.

(a) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the county board shall
employ individuals in the positions that the county board considers necessary for the
operation of the public schools in the county.

[Chief Officer] COUNTY(2) In Prince George’s County, the Executive
SUPERINTENDENT of the Prince George’s County public school system shall hire and set
the salaries of a chief operating officer, a chief financial officer, a chief academic officer, a
chief of staff, a board liaison, and any other necessary executive staff in the office of the
[Chief Officer] COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT.Executive

~~SECTION~~ ~~2.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That~~ ~~the~~ ~~functions,~~ ~~powers,~~ ~~duties,~~
~~and~~ ~~employees~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~Internal~~ ~~Audit~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ ~~public~~ ~~school~~
~~system~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~transferred~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~Integrity~~ ~~and~~ ~~Compliance~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~public~~ ~~school~~
~~system~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~effective~~ ~~date~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act.~~

~~SECTION~~ ~~3.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That~~ ~~all~~ ~~employees~~ ~~who~~ ~~are~~
~~transferred~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~Integrity~~ ~~and~~ ~~Compliance~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ ~~public~~
~~school~~ ~~system~~ ~~as~~ ~~a~~ ~~result~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~transferred~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~effective~~ ~~date~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act~~
~~without~~ ~~any~~ ~~diminution~~ ~~of~~ ~~their~~ ~~rights,~~ ~~including~~ ~~collective~~ ~~bargaining~~ ~~rights,~~ ~~benefits,~~ ~~or~~
~~employment~~ ~~or~~ ~~retirement~~ ~~status.~~

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 792

SECTION ~~4.~~ 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
July 1, 2023, ~~contingent~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~taking~~ ~~effect~~ ~~of~~ ~~Chapter~~ ~~____~~ ~~(H.B.~~ ~~432)~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Acts~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~
~~General~~ ~~Assembly~~ ~~of~~ ~~2023,~~ ~~and~~ ~~if~~ ~~Chapter~~ ~~____~~ ~~(H.B.~~ ~~432)~~ ~~does~~ ~~not~~ ~~take~~ ~~effect,~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act,~~
~~with~~ ~~no~~ ~~further~~ ~~action~~ ~~required~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~null~~ ~~and~~ ~~void.~~

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 17 –