PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 750

Chapter 750

(House Bill 428)

AN ACT concerning

University System of Maryland – Board of Regents – Student Member Grant

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Board of Regents of the University System of Maryland
to authorize a certain grant for the student member serving in the first year of the
student’s term on the Board of Regents; and generally relating to a grant for the
student member of the Board of Regents of the University System of Maryland.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 12–102(h)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

12–102.

(h) (1) Each member of the Board:

(i) Serves without compensation; and

(ii) Is entitled to reimbursement for expenses in accordance with the
Standard State Travel Regulations.

[grant](2) (i) The Board may AUTHORIZE A STUDENT MEMBER TO
RECEIVE:

1. IN 2–YEAR TERM,THE FIRST YEAR OF A A GRANT TO
UNIVERSITY SYSTEM MARYLAND FOUNDATIONBE MADE BY THE OF DIRECTLY OR
UNIVERSITY SYSTEM MARYLANDTHROUGH THE OF OR A CONSTITUENT
INSTITUTION FROM RESTRICTED FUNDS RAISED FROM ONE OR MORE PRIVATE
PURPOSE;DONORS FOR THIS AND

2. IN 2–YEAR TERM, a tuitionTHE SECOND YEAR OF A
[to member]waiver a student not to exceed the amount of the tuition obligation incurred
[the term]by the student member during second year of a 2–year YEAR.THAT SCHOOL

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 750 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) THE AMOUNT OF A GRANT AUTHORIZED UNDER
(I)1 NOT:SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH MAY

1. EXCEED THE COST OF THE TUITION AND FEES
2–YEAR TERM;INCURRED BY THE STUDENT MEMBER DURING THE FIRST YEAR OF A
OR

2. CAUSE THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF THE FINANCIAL AID
PROVIDED TO THE STUDENT MEMBER TO EXCEED THE COST OF ATTENDANCE FOR
YEAR.THE

[(ii)] (III) A tuition waiver provided to a student memberGRANT OR
(I)under this paragraph may not:SUBPARAGRAPH OF

1. Be considered a gift or compensation under Title 5 of the
General Provisions Article;

2. Be considered compensation under:

A. Paragraph (1) of this subsection; or

B. § 12–101(a)(3) of the State Government Article; or

3. Cause the student member to be classified as an employee
of the University System of Maryland.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 2 –