PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 287

Chapter 287

(House Bill 418)

AN ACT concerning

Mental Health – Workforce Development – Fund Established

FOR the purpose of establishing the Behavioral Health Workforce Investment Fund as a
special, nonlapsing fund; requiring that the interest earnings of the Fund be credited
to the Fund; requiring the Maryland Health Care Commission to conduct a
comprehensive behavioral health workforce needs assessment on or before a certain
date; and generally relating to the Behavioral Health Workforce Investment Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 10–1601 through 10–1603 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 16.
Behavioral Health Workforce Investment Fund”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

SUBTITLE 16. BEHAVIORAL HEALTH WORKFORCE INVESTMENT FUND.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 287 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

10–1601.

IN SUBTITLE, “FUND” BEHAVIORAL HEALTH WORKFORCETHIS MEANS THE
INVESTMENT FUND § 10–1602 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

10–1602.

(A) THERE BEHAVIORAL HEALTH WORKFORCE INVESTMENT FUND.IS A

(B) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE REIMBURSEMENT FOR
EDUCATING, TRAINING, CERTIFYING, RECRUITING,COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH
PLACING, AND RETAINING BEHAVIORAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS AND
PARAPROFESSIONALS.

(C) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL, FUNDIS A NONLAPSING THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:SHALL CONSIST

(1) MONEY STATE FUND;APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) INTEREST FUND;EARNINGS OF THE AND

(3) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(F) THE FUND MAY BE USED ONLY FOR CARRYING OUT THE PURPOSE OF
FUND.THE

(G) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(H) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 287

(I) MONEY FUNDEXPENDED FROM THE FOR CARRYING OUT THE PURPOSE
FUNDOF THE IS SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF
FUNDING THAT OTHERWISE WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR CARRYING OUT THE
FUND.PURPOSE OF THE

(J) NOTWITHSTANDING LAW,ANY OTHER PROVISION OF NO PART OF THE
FUND TO:MAY REVERT OR BE CREDITED

(1) THE GENERAL FUND STATE;OF THE OR

(2) ANY STATE.OTHER SPECIAL FUND OF THE

(K) THE FUND OFFICE LEGISLATIVEIS SUBJECT TO AUDIT BY THE OF
AUDITS § 2–1220 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.AS PROVIDED IN OF THE

10–1603.

ON DECEMBER 1 YEAR, 2024,OR BEFORE EACH BEGINNING IN THE
DEPARTMENT LEGISLATIVE POLICY COMMITTEE,SHALL SUBMIT A REPORT TO THE
SENATE BUDGET TAXATION COMMITTEE, HOUSETHE AND AND THE
APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE, § 2–1257 STATEIN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, INCLUDES:THAT

(1) FOR YEAR,THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING FISCAL THE AMOUNT
FUNDOF FUNDS TRANSFERRED AND DISTRIBUTED FROM THE IN ACCORDANCE
§ 10–1602 SUBTITLE;WITH OF THIS

(2) FOR YEAR,THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING FISCAL THE NUMBER
EDUCATED,OF BEHAVIORAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS AND PARAPROFESSIONALS
TRAINED, RECRUITED, CERTIFIED, PLACED, OR RETAINED WITH MONEY FROM THE
FUND, BY:AGGREGATED

(I) THE PARAPROFESSIONAL;TYPE OF PROFESSIONAL OR

(II) GEOGRAPHIC REGION;

(III) RACE; AND

(IV) ETHNICITY;

(3) THE FUNDAMOUNT OF ANY UNSPENT FUNDS IN THE AT THE END
YEAR;OF THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING FISCAL AND

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 287 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) IF (3)UNSPENT FUNDS ARE IDENTIFIED UNDER ITEM OF THIS
SECTION, SPENT.THE REASONS WHY THE FUNDS WERE NOT

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

Fund;171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair AND

172. BEHAVIORAL HEALTH WORKFORCETHE
INVESTMENT FUND.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) On or before ~~December~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2023~~ October 1, 2024, the Maryland Health Care
Commission, in coordination with the Behavioral Health Administration, the Maryland
Higher Education Commission, the Maryland Department of Labor, the Career and
Technical Education Committee, and other interested stakeholders, shall conduct a
comprehensive behavioral health workforce needs assessment.

(b) The assessment shall:

(1) determine the immediate, intermediate, and long–term unmet need
and capacity of the behavioral health workforce in the State, including demographics and
gaps in specific professionals and paraprofessionals, accounting for retirements and other
turnover;

(2) calculate the total number of additional behavioral health professionals
and paraprofessionals needed over the next 5 years, 10 years, and 20 years;

(3) make findings and recommendations regarding the types of training,
education, and tuition assistance programs necessary to certify, recruit, place, supervise,
and retain the additional behavioral health professionals and paraprofessionals identified
in item (2) of this subsection; and

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 287

(4) recommend an initial allocation to the Behavioral Health Workforce
Investment Fund established under § 10–1602 of the Health – General Article, as enacted
by Section 1 of this Act, and identify specifically which programs the allocation will support
and the number of professionals and paraprofessionals the allocation will train, certify,
recruit, and place.

(c) On or before ~~December~~ ~~15,~~ ~~2023~~ October 15, 2024, the Maryland Health Care
Commission shall submit the assessment to the Senate Budget and Taxation Committee,
the Senate Finance Committee, the House Appropriations Committee, and the House
Health and Government Operations Committee, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
Government Article.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 5 –