PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 352

Chapter 352

(House Bill 520)

AN ACT concerning

City of Annapolis – Alcoholic Beverages – Art Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing an art establishment beer and wine license in the City of
Annapolis; authorizing the Board of License Commissioners to issue the license to
sell or serve beer and wine for on–premises consumption to a nonprofit organization
primarily engaged in certain activities; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages
in the City of Annapolis.

BY renumbering
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 10–1001
to be Section 10–1002
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 10–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 10–1001
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 10–1001 of Article – Alcoholic Beverages of the Annotated Code of Maryland
be renumbered to be Section(s) 10–1002.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

10–102.

This title applies only in the City of Annapolis.

10–1001.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 352 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) THERE LICENSE.IS AN ART ESTABLISHMENT BEER AND WINE

(B) (1) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE THE LICENSE TO A NONPROFIT
IN:ORGANIZATION PRIMARILY ENGAGED

(I) DISPLAY, SALE,THE OR DEMONSTRATION OF ART BY AN
ARTISTS;INDIVIDUAL ARTIST OR A GROUP OF

(II) THE INSTRUCTION OF PARTICIPATING CLIENTS IN
ART;CREATING OR

(III) PERFORMANCES,LIVE INCLUDING MUSICAL ACTS OR
PERFORMANCES.THEATER

(2) THE BOARD MAY NOT ISSUE THE LICENSE TO AN ORGANIZATION
THAT:

(I) DISPLAYS AND SELLS COMMERCIALLY PREPARED OR
MASS–PRODUCED PRODUCTS;ARTISTIC OR

(II) HAS A CORPORATE PURPOSE THAT IS NOT DEDICATED TO
(1) SUBSECTION.THE ACTIVITIES DESCRIBED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(C) THE LICENSE AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO SELL OR SERVE BEER AND
ON–PREMISES CONSUMPTION.WINE AT RETAIL FOR

(D) THE LICENSE HOLDER MAY SELL OR SERVE BEER AND WINE DURING
§ 10–2003THE HOURS AND DAYS SET FOR BEER AND LIGHT WINE LICENSES UNDER
TITLE.OF THIS

(E) THE LOCATION.LICENSE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER

(F) THE ~~$205~~ $1,000.ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IS

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 2 –