PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 432

Chapter 432

(House Bill 548)

AN ACT concerning

Financial Regulation – Maryland Community Investment Venture Fund –
Establishment
(Access to Banking Act)

FOR the purpose of ~~authorizing~~ ~~the~~ ~~establishment~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ establishing the Maryland
Community Investment Venture Fund ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~Commissioner~~ ~~of~~ ~~Financial~~ ~~Regulation~~
as an instrumentality of the State for certain purposes; providing for certain
assessment offset credits for certain banking institutions and credit unions ~~that~~
~~establish~~ ~~de~~ ~~novo~~ ~~branches~~ ~~or~~ ~~maintain~~ ~~branches~~ in certain areas; authorizing the
use of the Banking Institution and Credit Union Regulation Fund for certain
purposes; and generally relating to ~~financial~~ ~~regulation~~ the Maryland Community
Investment Venture Fund and the assessment of banking institutions and credit
unions.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Financial Institutions
Section 2–118, 5–203, and 6–712
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Financial Institutions
Section 2–118.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Financial Institutions
Section 5–101(a) and (b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Financial Institutions

2–118.

(a) In this section, “Fund” means the Banking Institution and Credit Union
Regulation Fund established under this section.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 432 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) There is a Banking Institution and Credit Union Regulation Fund that
consists of:

(1) All revenue received for the chartering and regulation of persons who
engage in the business of a banking institution or credit union under this article; and

(2) Any other fee, assessment, or revenue received by the Commissioner
from banking institutions and credit unions under this article.

(c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, the Commissioner shall pay all
fines and penalties collected by the Commissioner from banking institutions and credit
unions under this article into the General Fund of the State.

(d) The purpose of the Fund is to pay all the costs and expenses incurred by the
Commissioner that are related to the regulation of banking institutions and credit unions
under this article, including:

[and](1) Expenditures authorized under this article;

(2) INVESTMENTS § 2–118.1 SUBTITLE;AUTHORIZED UNDER OF THIS
AND

[(2)] (3) Any other expense authorized in the State budget.

(e) (1) All the costs and expenses of the Commissioner relating to the
regulation of banking institutions and credit unions under this article shall be included in
the State budget.

(2) Any expenditures from the Fund to cover costs and expenses of the
Commissioner may be made only:

(i) By an appropriation from the Fund approved by the General
Assembly in the annual State budget; or

(ii) By the budget amendment procedure provided for in § 7–209 of
the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(3) If, in any given fiscal year, the amount of the revenue collected by the
Commissioner and deposited into the Fund exceeds the actual appropriation for the
Commissioner to regulate banking institutions and credit unions under this article, the
excess amount shall be carried forward within the Fund.

(f) (1) The State Treasurer is the custodian of the Fund.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 432

(2) The State Treasurer shall deposit payments received from the
Commissioner into the Fund.

(g) (1) The Fund is a continuing, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to §
7–302 of the State Finance and Procurement Article, and may not be deemed a part of the
General Fund of the State.

(2) Unless otherwise provided by law, no part of the Fund may revert or be
credited to:

(i) The General Fund of the State; or

(ii) A special fund of the State.

2–118.1.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “FUND” MARYLAND COMMUNITY INVESTMENTMEANS THE
VENTURE FUND.

~~(2)~~ (3) “LOW– MODERATE–INCOME TRACT”TO HAS THE MEANING
§ 5–203 ARTICLE.STATED IN OF THIS

~~(3)~~ ~~“PRIVATE~~ ~~FUND”~~~~VENTURE~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SEPARATE~~ ~~ENTITY~~ ~~OR~~
~~(B)~~ ~~(K)~~~~ENTITIES~~ ~~CHARTERED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~SUBSECTIONS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~

(B) (1) ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSIONER~~ THERE MARYLAND~~MAY~~ ~~INVEST~~ ~~IN~~ IS A
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT VENTURE FUND.

(2) THE ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~VENTURE~~ FUND IS A
PRIVATE VENTURE FUND THAT ~~IS~~ ~~A~~ ~~SEPARATELY~~ ~~CHARTERED~~ ~~EQUITY~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~USING~~
~~BOTH:~~

(I) IS STATE;AN INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE AND

(II) USES FUNDS.PUBLIC AND PRIVATE INVESTMENT

~~(3)~~ (C) (1) ~~THE~~ SUBJECT (2)TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, FUNDTHE PURPOSE OF THE ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ IS TO DEVELOP
OPPORTUNITIES FOR BANKING INSTITUTIONS AND CREDIT UNIONS TO BETTER
LOW– MODERATE–INCOME BY:SERVE THE NEEDS OF TO TRACTS

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 432 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) INVESTING IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF FINANCIAL PRODUCT
OR FINANCIAL PRODUCT UNDERWRITING INNOVATIONS THAT ~~WILL~~ ENHANCE
CAPITAL, FUNDING,ACCESS TO AND OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES FOR BUSINESSES
LOW– MODERATE–INCOME ~~MARYLAND~~ STATE;IN TO TRACTS IN THE

(II) DEPLOYING, TESTING, AND EVALUATING ~~THESE~~ THE
LOW–INNOVATIONS FOR PROVIDING CAPITAL AND FUNDING TO BUSINESSES IN TO
MODERATE–INCOME ~~MARYLAND~~ STATE;TRACTS IN THE AND

(III) PROMOTING AND MAKING ~~THESE~~ THE INNOVATIONS
AVAILABLE TO ~~A~~ ~~VARIETY~~ ~~OF~~ BANKING INSTITUTIONS AND CREDIT UNIONS FOR USE
CAPITAL, FUNDING,IN ENHANCING ACCESS TO AND OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES
LOW– MODERATE–INCOME ~~MARYLAND~~FOR BUSINESSES IN TO TRACTS IN THE
STATE.

(2) WITH COMMISSIONER,THE APPROVAL OF THE THE PURPOSE OF
FUNDTHE MAY BE ALTERED IN A MANNER THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH THE INTENT
SECTION.AND REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(D) (1) (I) THE COMMISSIONER SHALL ESTABLISH A GOVERNANCE
FUND.STRUCTURE FOR THE

(II) THE COMMISSIONER MAY COLLABORATE WITH INVESTORS
FUND STRUCTURE.IN THE WHEN ESTABLISHING THE GOVERNANCE

(2) THE COMMISSIONER, COMMISSIONER’S DESIGNEE,OR THE
FUND.SHALL SERVE ON THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE

~~(C)~~ (E) (1) THE COMMISSIONER $250,000MAY ~~EXPEND~~ USE UP TO
BANKING INSTITUTION CREDIT UNION REGULATION FUNDFROM THE AND
§ 2–118ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE TO COVER THE EXPENSES
ASSOCIATED WITH ~~CHARTERING~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ORGANIZING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~
FUND, ACCOUNTING, ADVISORY, THIRD–PARTYESTABLISHING THE INCLUDING
PROVIDER, MARKETING, EXPENSES.SERVICE AND OTHER NECESSARY

~~(D)~~ (2) TO INVESTMENT, COMMISSIONERENCOURAGE PRIVATE THE MAY
PROVIDE ~~THE~~ AN INITIAL EQUITY CAPITAL INVESTMENT IN THE ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~
FUND $2,500,000 BANKING INSTITUTION~~FUND~~ IN AN AMOUNT UP TO FROM THE
CREDIT UNION REGULATION FUND.AND

~~(E)~~ (F) (1) THROUGH JUNE 30, 2028, COMMISSIONERTHE MAY MATCH
FUND~~ANY~~ AN INVESTMENT MADE IN THE ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ BY A BANKING
INSTITUTION OR CREDIT UNION UP TO THE AMOUNT OF THE ASSESSMENT CREDIT

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 432

EARNED BY ~~THAT~~ THE BANKING INSTITUTION OR CREDIT UNION ~~UNDER~~ IN
~~§~~ ~~5–203(C)~~ § 5–203(D) § 6–712(C)(4) ARTICLE.ACCORDANCE WITH OR OF THIS

~~(F)~~ (2) THE COMMISSIONER MAY NOT MAKE ~~ANY~~ ~~FURTHER~~
FUND JUNE~~INVESTMENTS~~ AN INVESTMENT IN THE ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ AFTER
30, 2028.

(G) ~~ANY~~ ALL~~AND~~ ~~ALL~~ INVESTMENT RETURNS OR RETURN OF CAPITAL
FUNDFROM THE ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ WITH RESPECT TO ~~ANY~~ AN INVESTMENT
COMMISSIONERAUTHORIZED BY THE SHALL BE ~~THE~~ ~~PROPERTY~~ ~~OF~~ CREDITED TO
BANKING INSTITUTION CREDIT UNION REGULATION FUND.THE AND

~~(H)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(2)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~~~TO~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSIONER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NEGOTIATE~~ ~~APPROPRIATE~~ ~~GOVERNANCE~~ ~~STRUCTURES~~ ~~FOR~~
~~INVESTORS.~~~~THE~~ ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~OTHER~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSIONER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSIONER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ALWAYS~~ ~~SERVE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BODY~~ ~~GOVERNING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRIVATE~~
~~FUND.~~~~VENTURE~~

~~(3)~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PURPOSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~BE~~
~~COMMISSIONER.~~~~ALTERED~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AMENDED~~ ~~WITHOUT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONSENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(II)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~ALTERED~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AMENDED~~ ~~PURPOSE~~ ~~MUST~~ ~~REMAIN~~
~~SECTION.~~~~CONSISTENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(I)~~ (H) AT COMMISSIONER,THE DIRECTION OF THE AND IN ADDITION TO
FUND,ANY CUSTOMARY AND APPROPRIATE AUDITS OF THE ~~FUND~~ THE ~~PRIVATE~~
FUND~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ GOVERNING BODY OF THE SHALL ~~BE~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ENGAGE~~
OBTAIN THE SERVICES OF AN INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY DESIGNATED BY THE
COMMISSIONER ON AN ANNUAL BASIS TO EVALUATE WHETHER ~~ALL~~ THE
FUNDINVESTMENTS ~~MEET~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CRITERIA~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~BY~~ MADE TO THE COMPLY
SECTION.WITH THIS

~~(J)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~EXCEPT~~ ~~(2)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~DIVISION~~ ~~II~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~FINANCE~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~
~~COMMISSIONER~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~APPLY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OBTAINS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSIONER~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~12,~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~4~~~~IS~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OF~~
~~STATE~~ ~~FINANCE~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE~~~~THE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~CONTRACTED~~
~~(C)~~ ~~(K)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(K)~~ (I) (1) ~~TO~~ IF COMMISSIONER~~THE~~ ~~EXTENT~~ THE DETERMINES THAT
SEPARATE PRIVATE VENTURE FUNDS ARE NECESSARY TO ACCOMPLISH THE
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 432 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

FUND, COMMISSIONERPURPOSE OF THE ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ THE MAY ~~EXPEND~~
FUND~~FUNDS~~ USE MONEY FROM THE TO ~~CHARTER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ORGANIZE~~ ESTABLISH
FUNDS.ADDITIONAL PRIVATE VENTURE

(2) ~~ANY~~ AN ADDITIONAL PRIVATE VENTURE ~~FUNDS~~ ~~CHARTERED~~ ~~AND~~
~~ORGANIZED~~ ~~UNDER~~ FUND ESTABLISHED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SUBSECTION
~~ARE~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REQUIREMENTS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~LIMITATIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~
~~MARYLAND~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~VENTURE~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~(B)~~~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~
~~SECTION,~~~~THIS~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AGGREGATE~~ ~~EXPENSE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~
~~(C)~~ ~~(F)~~~~LIMITATIONS~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SUBSECTIONS~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ SHALL
(B) (F)COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF SUBSECTIONS THROUGH OF THIS
SECTION.

5–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “CAMELS” means the composite rating adopted by the federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council to evaluate the adequacy of capital, quality of assets,
capability of management, quality and level of earnings, adequacy of liquidity, and
sensitivity to market risk.

5–203.

(1) IN SECTION,(a) THIS ~~UNLESS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTEXT~~ ~~CLEARLY~~ ~~REQUIRES~~
~~OTHERWISE,~~ INDICATED.THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS

(2) “BRANCH” DEPOSIT–TAKINGMEANS A OFFICE OF A BANKING
~~MARYLAND~~INSTITUTION ~~IN~~ OTHER THAN THE MAIN OFFICE AS DEFINED BY THE
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION.

(3) “DE BRANCH” § 5–1001NOVO HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF
~~INSTITUTION.~~THIS TITLE ~~WITH~~ ~~RESPECT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~BANKING~~

(4) “DEPOSIT CAP” YEAR–OVER–YEARGROWTH MEANS THE
PERCENTAGE CHANGE OF DOMESTIC OFFICE DEPOSITS AS REPORTED ON
DECEMBER 31 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATIONEACH YEAR BY THE
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION PROFILE.IN THE QUARTERLY BANK

(5) “DEPOSITS” MEANS DEPOSITS ORIGINATED AND HOUSED AT A
LOW– MODERATE–INCOMEBRANCH LOCATED IN A TO TRACT AS REPORTED BY A
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATIONBANKING INSTITUTION TO THE
JUNE 30.EACH YEAR AS OF

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 432

(6) “LOW– MODERATE–INCOME TRACT”TO MEANS A CENSUS TRACT
U.S. BUREAU CENSUSDELINEATED BY THE OF THE IN THE MOST RECENT
FEDERAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONSDECENNIAL CENSUS AS PUBLISHED BY THE
EXAMINATION COUNCIL LOW– MODERATE–INCOMETHAT CORRESPONDS TO TO
FEDERALLEVEL CLASSIFICATIONS AS DEFINED BY THE REGULATION OF THE
RESERVE BOARD COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT,IMPLEMENTING THE FEDERAL
12 C.F.R. 228.12.

(B) The Commissioner shall impose annual assessments on each banking
institution as provided in this section, to cover the expense of regulating banking
institutions.

[(b)] (C) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the
Commissioner shall assess each banking institution the sum of:

(i) $8,000; plus

(ii) 1. 12 cents for each $1,000 of the assets of the institution over
$50,000,000, but not more than $250,000,000;

2. 10 cents for each $1,000 of assets over $250,000,000, but
not more than $500,000,000;

3. 9 cents for each $1,000 of assets over $500,000,000, but not
more than $1,000,000,000;

4. 8 cents for each $1,000 of assets over $1,000,000,000, but
not more than $10,000,000,000; and

5. 7 cents for each $1,000 of assets over $10,000,000,000.

(2) If a banking institution is not in the business of accepting deposits or
retaining funds in a deposit account as defined in § 5–509 of this title, the Commissioner
shall assess the banking institution the sum of:

(i) $5,000; plus

(ii) 1. 0.3 cents for each $1,000 of managed assets held in a
fiduciary capacity up to $5,000,000,000;

2. 0.2 cents for each $1,000 of managed assets held in a
fiduciary capacity over $5,000,000,000, but not more than $20,000,000,000;

3. 0.1 cent for each $1,000 of managed assets held in a
fiduciary capacity over $20,000,000,000 up to $27,500,000,000;

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 432 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

4. 0.2 cents for each $1,000 of nonmanaged and custodial
assets held in a fiduciary capacity up to $5,000,000,000; and

5. 0.1 cent for each $1,000 of nonmanaged and custodial
assets held in a fiduciary capacity over $5,000,000,000 up to $20,000,000,000.

(3) The assessments shall be based on assets stated in a banking
institution’s most recent financial report.

(D) A WELL–CAPITALIZED BANKING INSTITUTION WITH A COMPOSITE
CAMELS 1 2 COMMISSIONERRATING OF OR MAY FILE WITH THE A REQUEST FOR
OF:AN ASSESSMENT OFFSET CREDIT

(1) 12 $1,000CENTS FOR EACH OF DEPOSITS IN A DE NOVO BRANCH
LOW– MODERATE–INCOME 5LOCATED IN A TO TRACT FOR THE FIRST YEARS AFTER
OPENED;THE DATE THE BRANCH OR

(2) 6 $1,000CENTS FOR EACH OF DEPOSITS IN A BRANCH LOCATED IN
LOW– MODERATE–INCOME CAP.A TO TRACT NOT TO EXCEED THE DEPOSIT GROWTH

[(c)] (E) [(b)] (C)Notwithstanding subsection of this section, for a banking
institution with a composite CAMELS rating of 3, 4, or 5 for its most recent examination,
the annual assessment imposed under this section shall be increased by an additional 25%.

[(d)] (F) A banking institution shall pay the assessment imposed under this
section to the Commissioner on or before the April 15 after it is imposed.

(G) THE COMMISSIONER FOR:MAY DESIGNATE A SUCCESSOR INDEX

(1) THE LOW– MODERATE–INCOME FEDERALTO TRACT IF THE
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS EXAMINATION COUNCIL TRACT INCOME LEVEL DATA IS
PUBLISHED;NO LONGER OR

(2) THE FEDERAL DEPOSITDEPOSIT GROWTH CAP IF THE
INSURANCE CORPORATION REPORT OF DOMESTIC OFFICE DEPOSITS IS NO LONGER
PUBLISHED.

6–712.

(1) IN SECTION,(a) THIS ~~UNLESS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTEXT~~ ~~CLEARLY~~ ~~REQUIRES~~
~~OTHERWISE,~~ INDICATED.THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS

(2) “DE BRANCH”NOVO MEANS A BRANCH OF A CREDIT UNION THAT
~~MARYLAND~~ STATE.WAS ORIGINALLY ESTABLISHED BY THE CREDIT UNION IN THE

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 432

(3) “DEPOSIT CAP” YEAR–OVER–YEARGROWTH MEANS THE
DECEMBER 31PERCENTAGE CHANGE OF TOTAL SHARES AND DEPOSITS REPORTED
NATIONAL CREDITEACH YEAR BY FEDERALLY INSURED CREDIT UNIONS TO THE
UNION ADMINISTRATION NATIONAL CREDIT UNIONAND PUBLISHED IN THE
ADMINISTRATION CALL REPORT AGGREGATE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
REPORTS.

(4) “DEPOSITS” MEANS DEPOSITS ORIGINATED AND HOUSED AT A
LOW– MODERATE–INCOMECREDIT UNION BRANCH LOCATED IN A TO TRACT AS
COMMISSIONER JUNE 30.REPORTED BY A CREDIT UNION TO THE EACH YEAR AS OF

(5) “LOW– MODERATE–INCOME TRACT”TO HAS THE MEANING
§ 5–203 ARTICLE.STATED IN OF THIS

(B) This section applies only to a credit union with assets of $300,000 or greater.

[(b)] (C) (1) The Commissioner shall impose an annual assessment on each
credit union as provided in this subsection to cover the expense of regulating credit unions.

(2) The Commissioner shall assess each credit union the sum of:

(i) $1,000; and

(ii) 8 cents for each $1,000 of the assets of the credit union over
$1,000,000.

(3) The assessment shall be based on assets stated in the credit union’s
most recent financial report.

(4) A WELL–CAPITALIZED CREDIT UNION WITH A COMPOSITE
CAMELS 1 2 COMMISSIONERRATING OF OR MAY FILE WITH THE A REQUEST FOR
OF:AN ASSESSMENT OFFSET CREDIT

(I) 12 $1,000CENTS FOR EACH OF DEPOSITS IN A DE NOVO
LOW– MODERATE–INCOME 5BRANCH LOCATED IN A TO TRACT FOR THE FIRST YEARS
OPENED;AFTER THE DATE THE DE NOVO BRANCH OR

(II) 6 $1,000CENTS FOR EACH OF DEPOSITS IN A BRANCH
LOW– MODERATE–INCOMELOCATED IN A TO TRACT NOT TO EXCEED THE DEPOSIT
CAP.GROWTH

[(c)] (D) A credit union shall pay the assessment imposed under this section to
the Commissioner on or before the March 1 after the assessment is imposed.

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 432 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(E) THE COMMISSIONER MAY DESIGNATE A SUCCESSOR INDEX FOR THE
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION CALLDEPOSIT GROWTH CAP IF THE
REPORT AGGREGATE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REPORTS IS NO LONGER
PUBLISHED.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 10 –