PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 356

Chapter 356

(House Bill 571)

AN ACT concerning

~~Overdose~~ ~~Response~~ ~~Program~~ ~~–~~ ~~Opioid~~ ~~Overdose~~ ~~Reversal~~ ~~Drugs~~ ~~–~~ ~~Choice~~ ~~of~~
~~Formulation~~ ~~and~~ ~~Dosage~~
Opioids – Opioid Restitution Advisory Council and Fund and Overdose
Response Program

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Attorney General to direct that an Opioid Restitution
Fund Advisory Council committee be formed if required by a court or administrative
order or settlement agreement entered into by the Attorney General; requiring the
Maryland Department of Health, subject to the limitations of the State budget, to
allow certain entities provided opioid overdose reversal drugs by the Department
under the Overdose Response Program to choose the formulation or dosage of opioid
overdose reversal drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration with
which the entity is to be provided; applying the requirement that the appropriation
and distribution of funds in the Opioid Restitution Fund that were received in
accordance with certain opioid–related final distributor and settlement agreements
be made in a certain manner to funds received in accordance with any opioid–related
court or administrative judgment or settlement agreement; and generally relating to
~~the~~ ~~Overdose~~ ~~Response~~ ~~Program~~ opioids.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 7.5–903(f), 7.5–904, and 13–3103
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 7–331(a) through (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 7–331(h)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 356 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

7.5–903.

[With] SUBJECT § 7.5–904(C) SUBTITLE,(f) the consent ofTO OF THIS WITH
the Council, the chair may designate additional individuals with relevant expertise to serve
on a committee of the Council in an advisory capacity.

7.5–904.

[The] SUBJECT (C) SECTION,(a) (1) CouncilTO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
may adopt procedures necessary to do business, including the creation of committees.

(2) The Council may consult with State agencies to carry out the duties of
the Council.

(3) The Council shall meet at least four times a year.

(4) A majority of the voting members of the Council is a quorum.

(b) The Opioid Operational Command Center shall provide appropriate staff
necessary to support the functions of the Council.

(C) (1) IF REQUIRED BY A COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER OR A
ATTORNEY GENERAL,SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BY THE THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL COUNCILMAY DIRECT THAT A COMMITTEE BE FORMED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE
AGREEMENT.ORDER OR SETTLEMENT

(2) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SHALL ESTABLISH PROCEDURES FOR A
(1)COMMITTEE FORMED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION IN ORDER TO
ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE COURT OR
AGREEMENT.ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER OR SETTLEMENT

(3) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS A
(1)COMMITTEE FORMED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION SHALL CONDUCT
ONLY BUSINESS RELATED TO THE PURPOSE OF THE COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE
ORDER OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT THAT REQUIRED THE FORMATION OF THE
SUBCOMMITTEE.

(II) A COMMITTEE MAY CONDUCT BUSINESS RELATED TO
MULTIPLE COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS IF
THE COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS CONTAIN
REQUIREMENTS.IDENTICAL

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 356

(4) A (1)COMMITTEE FORMED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
COUNCIL.SUBSECTION MAY CONSIST ONLY OF MEMBERS OF THE

(5) UNLESS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN A COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE
AGREEMENT, COUNCIL, CHAIR’SORDER OR SETTLEMENT THE CHAIR OF THE OR THE
DESIGNEE, (1)SHALL BE CHAIR OF A COMMITTEE FORMED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF
SUBSECTION.THIS

13–3103.

(a) The Department shall adopt regulations necessary for the administration of
the Program.

(b) The Department may:

(1) Collect fees necessary for the administration of the Program;

(2) Authorize private or public entities to conduct education and training
on opioid overdose recognition and response that include:

(i) Education on recognizing the signs and symptoms of an opioid
overdose;

(ii) Training on responding to an opioid overdose, including the
administration of opioid overdose reversal drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug
Administration; and

(iii) Access to opioid overdose reversal drugs approved by the federal
Food and Drug Administration and the necessary supplies for the administration of the
opioid overdose reversal drugs;

(3) Develop guidance regarding the content of educational training
programs conducted by private or public entities; and

(4) Collect and report data on the operation and results of the programs.

(c) An individual is not required to obtain training and education on opioid
overdose recognition and response from a private or public entity under subsection (b) of
this section in order for a pharmacist to dispense an opioid overdose reversal drug approved
by the federal Food and Drug Administration to the individual.

(d) (1) Subject to the limitations of the State budget, the Department shall
purchase and provide opioid overdose reversal drugs approved by the federal Food and
Drug Administration, at no cost, to the providers who are required to offer opioid overdose
reversal drugs approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration under § 8–408 or §
19–310.3 of this article.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 356 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) An entity required to offer an opioid overdose reversal drug approved
by the federal Food and Drug Administration under § 8–408 or § 19–310.3 of this article
may provide an opioid overdose reversal drug approved by the federal Food and Drug
Administration only if the opioid overdose reversal drug approved by the federal Food and
Drug Administration is provided by the Department.

(3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL, SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATIONS OF THE
STATE BUDGET, ALLOW AN ENTITY THAT IS PROVIDED WITH OPIOID OVERDOSE
DEPARTMENTREVERSAL DRUGS BY THE UNDER THIS SUBSECTION TO CHOOSE THE
FORMULATION OR DOSAGE OF OPIOID OVERDOSE REVERSAL DRUGS APPROVED BY
FOOD DRUG ADMINISTRATIONTHE FEDERAL AND WITH WHICH THE ENTITY IS TO
PROVIDED.BE

Article – State Finance and Procurement

7–331.

(a) In this section, “Fund” means the Opioid Restitution Fund.

(b) There is an Opioid Restitution Fund.

(c) The purpose of the Fund is to retain the amount of settlement revenues
deposited to the Fund in accordance with subsection (e)(1) of this section.

(h) (1) Expenditures from the Fund may be made only in accordance with the
State budget.

(2) For settlement funds received in accordance with the final distributor
agreement of July 21, 2021, with McKesson Corporation, Amerisource Bergen Corporation,
[or]and Cardinal Health Incorporated, as amended, the Janssen settlement agreement of
OPIOID–RELATEDJuly 21, 2021, as amended, OR ANY OTHER COURT OR
STATEADMINISTRATIVE JUDGMENT OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT INVOLVING THE
SUBDIVISIONS:AND ONE OR MORE OF ITS POLITICAL

(i) appropriations from the Fund in the State budget shall be made
in accordance with the allocation and distribution of funds to the State and its political
subdivisions:

1. as agreed on in the State–subdivision agreement of
amended;January 21, 2022, as OR

2. OPIOID–RELATEDREQUIRED UNDER ANY OTHER
AGREEMENT,COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGMENT OR SETTLEMENT OR ANY
OPIOID–RELATEDSIMILAR AGREEMENT REACHED UNDER AN COURT OR

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 356

AGREEMENT, STATEADMINISTRATIVE JUDGMENT OR SETTLEMENT INVOLVING THE
SUBDIVISIONS; andAND ONE OR MORE OF ITS POLITICAL

(ii) the Secretary of Health shall establish and administer a grant
program for the distribution of funds to political subdivisions of the State in accordance
with:

1. the State–subdivision agreement of January 21, 2022, as
amended; OR

2. THE REQUIREMENTS OF ANY OTHER
OPIOID–RELATED COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGMENT OR SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT, OPIOID–RELATEDOR ANY SIMILAR AGREEMENT REACHED UNDER AN
AGREEMENT,COURT OR ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGMENT OR SETTLEMENT INVOLVING
STATE SUBDIVISIONS.THE AND ONE OR MORE OF ITS POLITICAL

(3) The Attorney General shall identify and designate the controlling
version of any agreement or amendment described under paragraph (2) of this subsection.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ July 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 5 –