PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 332

Chapter 332

(House Bill 596)

AN ACT concerning

Health and Human Services Transportation Improvement Act of 2023

FOR the purpose of ~~establishing~~ ~~the~~ ~~Rural~~ ~~Nonemergency~~ ~~Medical~~ ~~Transportation~~
~~Program;~~ repealing a certain cap on the amount of grants that may be awarded by
the Maryland Transit Administration under the Maryland Senior Rides Program;
repealing a certain cap on funding for the Job Access and Reverse Commute Program
~~and~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~funding~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~Rural~~ ~~Nonemergency~~ ~~Medical~~
~~Transportation~~ ~~Program~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~budget;~~ establishing the State Coordinating
Committee for Health and Human Services Transportation; and generally relating
to transportation for health and human services in the State.

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Health~~ ~~–~~ ~~General~~
~~Section~~ ~~13–4801~~ ~~through~~ ~~13–4805~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~new~~ ~~subtitle~~ ~~“Subtitle~~ ~~48.~~ ~~Rural~~
~~Nonemergency~~ ~~Medical~~ ~~Transportation~~ ~~Program”~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2019~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2022~~ ~~Supplement)~~

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 7–1002
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 7–1102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing
Article – Transportation
Section 7–1107
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Transportation
Section 7–1107 and 7–1109
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 332 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Health~~ ~~–~~ ~~General~~

~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~48.~~ ~~RURAL~~ ~~NONEMERGENCY~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~

~~13–4801.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~WORDS~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANINGS~~
~~INDICATED.~~

~~(B)~~ ~~“ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL”~~ ~~WHO:~~~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~

~~(1)~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~STATE~~~~NOT~~ ~~QUALIFY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECEIVE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~FUNDING~~
~~FOR~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECEIVING~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~BECAUSE~~ ~~THE~~
~~INDIVIDUAL:~~

~~(I)~~ ~~RESIDES~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~LOCATION~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~DISQUALIFIES~~ ~~THE~~
~~FUNDING;~~~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~QUALIFYING~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(II)~~ ~~OWNS~~ ~~CAR;~~~~A~~

~~(III)~~ ~~RECEIVED~~ ~~VOLUNTEER,~~~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~A~~ ~~BUT~~
~~TRANSPORTATION;~~~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~NO~~ ~~LONGER~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~ACCESS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THAT~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~HAD~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~PROCEDURE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~QUALIFY~~ ~~THE~~
~~FUNDING;~~~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(V)~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~A~~ ~~TEMPORARY~~ ~~DISABILITY~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~QUALIFY~~
~~FUNDING;~~~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(VI)~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~LIVE~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~DISTANCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~
~~FUNDING;~~~~PUBLIC~~ ~~BUS~~ ~~STOP~~ ~~TO~~ ~~QUALIFY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~NEEDS~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OR~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~
~~COUNTY;~~~~WHERE~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~TRIP~~ ~~EITHER~~ ~~BEGINS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ENDS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~RURAL~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~COORDINATOR~~ ~~DETERMINES~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEDICAL~~
~~NEED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~REQUIRES~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~SERVICES~~
~~PROGRAM.~~~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~

~~(C)~~ ~~“HOSPITAL”~~ ~~§~~ ~~19–301~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~HAS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANING~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 332

~~(D)~~ ~~“HOSPITAL~~ ~~COORDINATOR”~~~~CARE~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~
~~WHO~~ ~~COORDINATES~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~FOR~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(E)~~ ~~“NONPROFIT~~ ~~ORGANIZATION”~~ ~~THAT:~~~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~

~~(1)~~ ~~IS:~~

~~(I)~~ ~~DESCRIBED~~ ~~§~~ ~~501(C)(3)~~ ~~INTERNAL~~ ~~REVENUE~~~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~CODE;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~EXEMPT~~ ~~§~~ ~~501(A)~~~~FROM~~ ~~INCOME~~ ~~TAX~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~INTERNAL~~ ~~REVENUE~~ ~~CODE;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~PROVIDES~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~HOSPITAL.~~~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~A~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~

~~(F)~~ ~~“PROGRAM”~~ ~~RURAL~~ ~~NONEMERGENCY~~ ~~MEDICAL~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~
~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~

~~(G)~~ ~~“RURAL~~ ~~COUNTY”~~ ~~MEANS:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~ALLEGANY~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~CALVERT~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(3)~~ ~~CAROLINE~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(4)~~ ~~CARROLL~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(5)~~ ~~CECIL~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(6)~~ ~~CHARLES~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(7)~~ ~~DORCHESTER~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(8)~~ ~~FREDERICK~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(9)~~ ~~GARRETT~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(10)~~ ~~HARFORD~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(11)~~ ~~KENT~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 332 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(12)~~ ~~QUEEN~~ ~~ANNE’S~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(13)~~ ~~SOMERSET~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(14)~~ ~~ST.~~ ~~MARY’S~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(15)~~ ~~TALBOT~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(16)~~ ~~WASHINGTON~~ ~~COUNTY;~~

~~(17)~~ ~~WICOMICO~~ ~~COUNTY;~~ ~~OR~~

~~(18)~~ ~~WORCESTER~~ ~~COUNTY.~~

~~13–4802.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THERE~~ ~~RURAL~~ ~~NONEMERGENCY~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~~~IS~~ ~~A~~
~~PROGRAM.~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~PURPOSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~HOSPITALS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~COORDINATE~~
~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OR~~ ~~FROM~~
~~INDIVIDUALS.~~~~MEDICAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~

~~13–4803.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SHALL:~~~~ADOPTED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~COORDINATE~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~
~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~TRAVEL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OR~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~MEDICAL~~
~~SERVICES;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~A~~ ~~MONTHLY~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~SET~~ ~~BY~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~
~~PROGRAM~~~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~
~~ESTABLISHING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TOTAL~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~THE~~
~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~WILL~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~PATIENTS~~ ~~AT~~
~~PROGRAM;~~~~THE~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~ABOUT~~
~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~COORDINATOR~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~SELECTED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECEIVE~~
~~PROGRAM~~~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~MANNER~~ ~~THAT~~
~~STATE~~ ~~LAWS.~~~~COMPLIES~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~PRIVACY~~

~~(B)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION:~~~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~PROVIDE~~

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 332

~~(1)~~ ~~TO~~ ~~120~~~~AN~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~ ~~DAYS~~ ~~AT~~ ~~A~~
~~TIME;~~ ~~OR~~

~~(2)~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~REQUESTS~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~BUT~~ ~~DOES~~
~~OCCASION.~~~~NOT~~ ~~USE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~ON~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~ ~~ONE~~

~~13–4804.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~ADOPT~~ ~~A~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~

~~(B)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~PROGRAM,~~ ~~SHALL:~~~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~ADOPTS~~ ~~A~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~

~~(1)~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~A~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~
~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~PATIENTS~~ ~~AT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~
~~SUBTITLE;~~~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ADOPT~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROCESS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~NOTIFYING~~ ~~PATIENTS~~ ~~AT~~
~~PROGRAM.~~~~THE~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~ABOUT~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~AVAILABLE~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~

~~(C)~~ ~~A~~ ~~SHALL:~~~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~COORDINATOR~~

~~(1)~~ ~~DETERMINE~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~PATIENTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~ARE~~
~~PROGRAM~~~~INTERESTED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~RECEIVING~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~
~~INDIVIDUALS;~~~~ARE~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~DETERMINE~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~WILL~~ ~~RECEIVE~~
~~PROGRAM~~~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BUDGET~~
~~ORGANIZATION;~~~~PROVIDED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~COORDINATE~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~
~~WHO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~COORDINATOR~~ ~~SELECTS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECEIVE~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~
~~TO~~ ~~TRAVEL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~RECEIVING~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~~~THIS~~

~~(D)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~ENTERS~~ ~~INTO~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~A~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~
~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PURPOSES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~PROVIDING~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~THROUGH~~
~~PROGRAM,~~~~THE~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NAME~~ ~~AND~~ ~~CONTACT~~ ~~INFORMATION~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~30~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~DAYS~~ ~~AFTER~~
~~SIGNED.~~~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~IS~~

~~13–4805.~~

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 332 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(A)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~2025~~ ~~THEREAFTER,~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~
~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~
~~$1,000,000~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PURPOSES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~CARRYING~~ ~~OUT~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~~~THIS~~

~~(B)~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~YEAR,~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FUNDS~~
~~(A)~~ ~~SECTION:~~~~APPROPRIATED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(1)~~ ~~TO~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~PROVIDES~~ ~~SERVICES~~
~~PROGRAM,~~ ~~§~~ ~~13–4804(D)~~ ~~SUBTITLE;~~~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AS~~ ~~REPORTED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~AN~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~PROPORTIONAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~
~~ORGANIZATION’S~~ ~~ESTIMATED~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~PROVIDING~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~
~~PROGRAM.~~~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~

Article – Transportation

7–1002.

(a) There is a Maryland Senior Rides Program in the Administration.

(b) The purpose of the Program is to encourage regional providers to provide
door–to–door transportation for low–income to moderate–income seniors.

(c) The Administration shall award grants to qualified Program applicants, as
provided in § 7–1003 of this subtitle, for the operation of transportation services as specified
in this section.

(d) To be eligible for a grant under § 7–1003 of this subtitle, a Program applicant
shall:

(1) Provide door–to–door transportation for low–income to
moderate–income seniors who have difficulty accessing or using other existing
transportation systems;

(2) Use primarily volunteer drivers who drive their own vehicles;

(3) Use a dispatcher system to respond quickly to requests from
low–income to moderate–income seniors for door–to–door transportation; and

(4) Define a geographic area for which door–to–door transportation is
provided.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 332

(e) A Program participant may provide door–to–door transportation to an eligible
senior who does not reside in the geographic area defined by the Program participant under
subsection (d)(4) of this section when applying to participate in the Program, so long as
service is not diminished to an eligible senior who does reside in the defined geographic
area.

(f) A Program participant shall expend a matching fund of at least 25% of the
total capital or operating costs associated with providing door–to–door transportation for
low–income to moderate–income seniors.

[The(g) Administration may not award more than $500,000 in grants per year.

(h)] A Program participant may charge reasonable fees for door–to–door
transportation provided by the Program participant.

[(i)] (H) Nothing in this section prohibits a Program participant from providing
services in addition to those described in subsection (d) of this section.

7–1102.

There is a Job Access and Reverse Commute Program in the Administration.

[7–1107.

Funds for the Program shall be as provided by the Governor in the State budget, not
annually.]to exceed $400,000

7–1107.

THE GOVERNOR PROGRAM STATESHALL PROVIDE FUNDING FOR THE IN THE
BUDGET.

7–1109.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “STATE AGENCY” DEPARTMENT, AGENCY,MEANS AN EXECUTIVE
STATE.OR OFFICE OF THE

(3) “TRANSPORTATION–DISADVANTAGED” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL
WHO QUALIFIES FOR FEDERALLY CONDUCTED OR FEDERALLY ASSISTED
TRANSPORTATION–RELATED SERVICES,PROGRAMS OR AS IMPLEMENTED AND
STATE AGENCY, DISABILITY, INCOME,COORDINATED BY A DUE TO OR ADVANCED
AGE.

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 332 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) THERE STATE COORDINATING COMMITTEE HEALTHIS A FOR AND
HUMAN SERVICES TRANSPORTATION.

(C) THE COMMITTEE MEMBERS:CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING

(1) THE SECRETARY, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

(2) THE SECRETARY HUMAN SERVICES, SECRETARY’SOF OR THE
DESIGNEE;

(3) THE SECRETARY HEALTH, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OF OR THE

(4) THE SECRETARY AGING, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OF OR THE

(5) THE SECRETARY DISABILITIES, SECRETARY’SOF OR THE
DESIGNEE;

(6) THE SECRETARY HOUSING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT,OF AND
SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

(7) THE SECRETARY PLANNING, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OF OR THE

(8) THE SECRETARY VETERANS AFFAIRS, SECRETARY’SOF OR THE
DESIGNEE;

(9) THE SECRETARY LABOR, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OF OR THE

(10) THE DIRECTOR GOVERNOR’S OFFICE DEAFOF THE FOR THE AND
HARD HEARING, DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;OF OR THE

(11) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MARYLANDOF THE
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES COUNCIL, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’SOR THE
DESIGNEE;

(12) THE EXECUTIVE BOARD CHAIR RURAL MARYLANDOF THE
COUNCIL, EXECUTIVE BOARD CHAIR’S DESIGNEE;OR THE AND

(13) ANY ADDITIONAL MEMBERS RECOMMENDED BY THE CHAIR OF
COMMITTEE GOVERNORTHE AND APPOINTED BY THE TO PROVIDE INPUT FROM
GOVERNMENTS, EMPLOYERS, AGENCIES,LOCAL AND ORGANIZATIONS SERVING
POPULATIONS, PROVIDERS,PRIORITY TRANSPORTATION AND CONSUMERS FROM
POPULATIONS.PRIORITY

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 332

(D) (1) THE APPOINTED MEMBERS SERVE AT THE PLEASURE OF THE
GOVERNOR.

(2) THE 3 YEARS.TERM OF AN APPOINTED MEMBER IS

(3) THE GOVERNOR MAY STAGGER THE TERMS OF THE APPOINTED
MEMBERS.

(E) THE SECRETARY, SECRETARY,OR THE DESIGNEE OF THE SHALL CHAIR
COMMITTEE.THE

(F) THE DEPARTMENT COMMITTEE.SHALL PROVIDE STAFF FOR THE

(G) A COMMITTEE:MEMBER OF THE

(1) MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
COMMITTEE; BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

(H) THE COMMITTEE SHALL:

(1) EXAMINE THE TRANSPORTATION NEEDS OF RESIDENTS OF THE
STATE WHO:

(I) ARE ELDERLY;

(II) HAVE DISABILITY;A OR

(III) REQUIRE JOBS,TRANSPORTATION TO ACCESS MEDICAL
HEALTH–RELATED APPOINTMENTS, PROGRAMS,AND OTHER SENIOR CITIZEN OR
OTHER PROGRAMS REQUIRING THE TRANSPORTATION OF INDIVIDUALS WHO
TRANSPORTATION–DISADVANTAGED;QUALIFY AS

(2) COORDINATE STATEEFFORTS IN THE TO PROVIDE QUALITY
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES TRANSPORTATION SERVICES BY WORKING WITH
FEDERAL, STATE, AGENCIES, CONSUMERS,APPROPRIATE AND LOCAL TRANSIT AND
PROVIDERS,TRANSPORTATION TO DEVELOP A COOPERATIVE AND COORDINATED
SYSTEM;HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES TRANSPORTATION

(3) CONDUCT AN INVENTORY AND ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH AND
STATE;HUMAN SERVICES TRANSPORTATION PROVIDERS IN THE

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 332 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) DEVISE 5–YEARA HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
TRANSPORTATION PLAN THAT SETS GOALS AND OBJECTIVES TO HELP
TRANSPORTATION–DISADVANTAGED STATE JOBS,RESIDENTS OF THE ACCESS
PROGRAMS, SERVICES,EDUCATION AND TRAINING HEALTH CARE AND OTHER
COST–EFFECTIVE, AFFORDABLE, HIGH–CAPACITY,ACTIVITIES BY PROVIDING
HIGH–QUALITY, UNDERSTOOD,EASILY AND SAFE AND ACCESSIBLE
TRANSPORTATION; AND

(5) (I) SERVE AS THE CLEARINGHOUSE FOR HEALTH AND HUMAN
STATE;SERVICES TRANSPORTATION COORDINATION ISSUES IN THE

(II) IDENTIFY AND FACILITATE RESOLUTION TO ISSUES
TRANSPORTATION,REGARDING HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES BOTH LOCALLY AND
STATEWIDE;

(III) PARTICIPATE IN THE IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL
ALLOCATIONS OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES TRANSPORTATION RESOURCES
EVACUATIONS;DURING EMERGENCY

(IV) EVALUATE COST–SAVING MEASURES;

(V) INVESTIGATE THE NEED FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES AND DRIVERS WITHIN HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
PROGRAMS;TRANSPORTATION AND

(VI) EXAMINE OTHER APPROPRIATE AREAS TO FACILITATE THE
DEVELOPMENT OF A QUALITY HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES TRANSPORTATION
STATE.SYSTEM IN THE

(I) ON SEPTEMBER 1 YEAR, COMMITTEEOR BEFORE EACH THE SHALL
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257REPORT ON ITS ACTIVITIES TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY.OF THE THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 10 –