PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 430

Chapter 430

(House Bill 552)

AN ACT concerning

Economic Development – Build Our Future Grant Pilot Program and Fund
(Innovation Economy Infrastructure Act of 2023)

FOR the purpose of establishing the Build Our Future Grant Pilot Program in the
Department of Commerce to provide funding for certain costs for infrastructure
projects in eligible technology sectors; requiring certain grantees to provide matching
funds and to demonstrate certain abilities; establishing the Build Our Future Grant
Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; and generally relating to the Build Our Future
Grant Pilot Program and Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 5–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 5–2301 through 5–2307 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 23. Build Our
Future Grant Pilot Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 430 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

5–102.

The Department shall administer the State’s economic development and financial
assistance programs and funds including:

(1) the BRAC Revitalization and Incentive Zone Program, under Subtitle
13 of this title;

BUILD OUR FUTURE GRANT PILOT PROGRAM,(2) THE UNDER
SUBTITLE 23 TITLE;OF THIS

(3) the Enterprise Fund, under Subtitle 6 of this title;

[(3)] (4) the Enterprise Zones Program, under Subtitle 7 of this title;

[(4)] (5) the Make Office Vacancies Extinct Program, under Subtitle 15 of
this title;

[(5)] (6) the Maryland Economic Adjustment Fund, under Subtitle 2 of
this title;

[(6)] (7) the Maryland Economic Development Assistance Authority and
Fund, under Subtitle 3 of this title;

[(7)] (8) the Maryland Industrial Development Financing Authority,
under Subtitle 4 of this title;

[(8)] (9) the Maryland Small Business Development Financing Authority,
under Subtitle 5 of this title;

[(9)] (10) the Appalachian Regional Development Program, under Title 13,
Subtitle 1 of this article;

[(10)] (11) jointly with the Department of Housing and Community
Development, the Community Development Block Grant for Economic Development;

[(11)] (12) the Regional Institution Strategic Enterprise Zone Program
under Subtitle 14 of this title; and

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 430

[(12)] (13) any other programs or funds designated by statute, the
Governor, or the Secretary.

SUBTITLE 23. BUILD OUR FUTURE GRANT PILOT PROGRAM.

5–2301.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “FUND” BUILD OUR FUTURE GRANT FUND.MEANS THE

(C) “PROGRAM” BUILD OUR FUTURE GRANT PILOT PROGRAM.MEANS THE

5–2302.

(A) THERE BUILD OUR FUTURE GRANT PILOT PROGRAMIS A IN THE
DEPARTMENT.

(B) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE GRANT FUNDING FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS INTENDED TO SUPPORT INNOVATION IN AN ELIGIBLE
SECTOR.TECHNOLOGY

(C) GRANTS COMPANIES,MAY BE AWARDED TO PRIVATE NONPROFIT
ENTITIES, GOVERNMENTS, STATE.LOCAL OR COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES IN THE

(D) THE DEPARTMENT PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

5–2303.

(A) TO PROGRAM, DEPARTMENTCARRY OUT THE PURPOSE OF THE THE
MAY AWARD GRANTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SUBTITLE TO APPROVED
RECIPIENTS CARRYING OUT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS INTENDED TO SUPPORT
SECTORS:INNOVATION IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBLE TECHNOLOGY

(1) MANUFACTURING;ADVANCED

(2) AEROSPACE;

(3) AGRICULTURE;

(4) INTELLIGENCE;ARTIFICIAL

(5) BIOTECHNOLOGY;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 430 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(6) TECHNOLOGY;BLUE

(7) CYBERSECURITY;

(8) DEFENSE;

(9) SUSTAINABILITY;ENERGY AND

(10) SCIENCES;LIFE

(11) QUANTUM; AND

(12) ROBOTICS.SENSOR AND

(B) EXAMPLES INCLUDE:OF ELIGIBLE PROJECTS

(1) ~~SECURE~~ ~~COMPARTMENTALIZED~~ SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED
FACILITIES;INFORMATION

(2) LABORATORIES;WET

(3) RANGES;CYBER

(4) CENTERS;PROTOTYPE MANUFACTURING AND

(5) TRAINING,OTHER SPECIALIZED WORKFORCE SKILL
CERTIFICATION, RESEARCH–RELATED SPACES.OR

(C) GRANT AWARDS MAY BE USED TO DEFRAY THE COST A GRANTEE INCURS
ACQUIRE, CONSTRUCT, REHABILITATE, INSTALL, IMPROVE,TO OR EQUIP AN
PROJECT.ELIGIBLE INNOVATION INFRASTRUCTURE

(D) (1) A $2,000,000SINGLE ENTITY MAY BE AWARDED NOT MORE THAN
YEAR.IN GRANT FUNDS IN A FISCAL

(2) (I) FOR $1,000,000,A GRANT AWARD UP TO A GRANTEE SHALL
200% AMOUNT.PROVIDE MATCHING FUNDS THAT ARE AT LEAST OF THE GRANT

(II) FOR $1,000,000,A GRANT AWARD EXCEEDING AND UP TO
$2,000,000, A GRANTEE SHALL PROVIDE MATCHING FUNDS THAT ARE AT LEAST
400% AMOUNT.OF THE GRANT

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 430

(III) FUNDS STATERECEIVED BY A GRANTEE THROUGH OTHER
GRANTEE’SGRANT PROGRAMS ARE NOT COUNTED TOWARD THE MATCHING FUNDS
REQUIREMENT.

(3) A GRANTEE MUST DEMONSTRATE AN ABILITY TO COVER THE FULL
AWARDED.ESTIMATED COSTS OF THE PROJECT FOR WHICH THE GRANT IS

(4) (I) NOT 50%MORE THAN OF THE APPROPRIATION TO THE
FUND IN A FISCAL YEAR MAY BE AWARDED TO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES IN
YEAR.THAT FISCAL

(II) GRANTS FUNDTO COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES FROM THE
THAT:MUST BE AWARDED TO PROJECTS

1. ARE PERFORMED IN COLLABORATION WITH PRIVATE
INDUSTRY; OR

2. OFFER THE PROSPECT OF SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC
IMPACT AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO DEVELOP ENTREPRENEURSHIP OR CLUSTERS
STATE.OF TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION IN THE

5–2304.

A GRANTEE MAY BE SUBJECT TO REPAYMENT OF THE GRANT IN AN AMOUNT
DEPARTMENT TO:DETERMINED BY THE IF THE GRANTEE FAILS

(1) COMPLY WITH REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED BY THE
DEPARTMENT; OR

(2) FUNDS.DEMONSTRATE APPROPRIATE USE OF GRANT

5–2305.

(A) THERE BUILD OUR FUTURE GRANT FUND.IS A

(B) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE GRANTS FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS TO SUPPORT INNOVATION IN ELIGIBLE TECHNOLOGY
SUBTITLE.SECTORS UNDER THIS

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCESUBJECT TO REVERSION UNDER OF THE AND
PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 430 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) FUND;ANY INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE AND

(3) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(F) (1) THE FUND TO:MAY BE USED

(I) SUBTITLE;PROVIDE GRANTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS
AND

(II) PROGRAM.PAY THE ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF THE

(2) DURING YEAR, DEPARTMENTEACH FISCAL THE MAY USE NOT
10% FUNDMORE THAN OF THE MONEY APPROPRIATED TO THE TO ADMINISTER THE
PROGRAM.

(G) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(H) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

5–2306.

ON JULY 1, 2026, DEPARTMENTOR BEFORE THE SHALL REPORT TO THE
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTIN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYTHE ON THE PROJECTS FUNDED THROUGH AND THE
PROGRAM.ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE

5–2307.

THE SECRETARY SUBTITLE.MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 430

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

Fund;171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair AND

172. BUILD OUR FUTURE GRANT FUND.THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on termination of this Act,
all funds remaining in the Build Our Future Grant Fund under § 5–2305 of the Economic
Development Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act, shall revert to the General Fund
of the State.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023. It shall remain effective for a period of 4 years and, at the end of June 30, 2027,
this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and
of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 7 –