PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 515

Chapter 515

(House Bill 692)

AN ACT concerning

Public Service Commission – Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity –
Local Permits

FOR the purpose of ~~requiring~~ establishing that a county or a municipal corporation has the
authority to ~~process~~ approve or deny any local permit required under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued by the Public Service Commission for
generating stations, transmission lines, and qualified generator lead lines; requiring
a county or municipal corporation to ~~process~~ approve or deny the local permits in a
certain manner; prohibiting a county or municipal corporation from conditioning the
approval of the local permits on certain ~~reviews,~~ ~~approvals,~~ ~~and~~ ~~findings~~ approvals;
and generally relating to certificates of public convenience and necessity.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Public Utilities
Section 7–207(b)(1)(i) and 7–208(c)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Public Utilities
Section 7–207(h) and 7–208(j)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Utilities

7–207.

(b) (1) (i) Unless a certificate of public convenience and necessity for the
construction is first obtained from the Commission, a person may not begin construction in
the State of:

1. a generating station; or

2. a qualified generator lead line.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 515 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(H) ~~NOTWITHSTANDING~~ ~~LAW,~~~~ANY~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~A~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~CORPORATION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROCESS~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~REASONABLE~~ ~~TIME~~

(1) A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION HAS THE AUTHORITY TO
~~PROCESS~~ APPROVE OR DENY ANY LOCAL PERMIT REQUIRED UNDER A CERTIFICATE
SECTION.OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY ISSUED UNDER THIS

(2) A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION SHALL ~~PROCESS~~
APPROVE OR DENY ANY LOCAL PERMITS REQUIRED UNDER A CERTIFICATE OF
SECTION:PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY ISSUED UNDER THIS

(I) TIME;WITHIN A REASONABLE AND

(II) TO THE EXTENT LOCAL LAWS ARE NOT PREEMPTED BY
STATE LAW, LAWS.IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL

(3) A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION MAY NOT CONDITION
THE APPROVAL OF A LOCAL PERMIT REQUIRED UNDER A CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC
ON:CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY ISSUED UNDER THIS SECTION

~~(I)~~ RECEIPT OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ~~REVIEWS~~ ~~OR~~
STATION,APPROVALS FOR ANY ASPECT OF A GENERATING AN OVERHEAD
LINE,TRANSMISSION OR A QUALIFIED LEAD LINE PROPOSED TO BE CONSTRUCTED
CERTIFICATE:UNDER THE

~~1.~~ (I) APPROVAL;A CONDITIONAL USE

~~2.~~ (II) APPROVAL;A SPECIAL EXCEPTION OR

~~3.~~ (III) APPROVAL; ~~OR.~~A FLOATING ZONE

~~4.~~ ~~APPROVAL;~~~~ANY~~ ~~DISCRETIONARY~~ ~~REVIEW~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~A~~ ~~FINDING~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~
~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROJECT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~CONSISTENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ALLOWED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMPREHENSIVE~~
~~CORPORATION.~~~~PLAN~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ZONING~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~

7–208.

(c) (1) To obtain the certificate of public convenience and necessity required
under § 7–207 of this subtitle for construction under this section, a person shall file an
application with the Commission at least 2 years before construction of the facility will
commence.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 515

(J) ~~NOTWITHSTANDING~~ ~~LAW,~~~~ANY~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~A~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~CORPORATION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROCESS~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~REASONABLE~~ ~~TIME~~

(1) A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION HAS THE AUTHORITY TO
~~PROCESS~~ APPROVE OR DENY ANY LOCAL PERMIT REQUIRED UNDER A CERTIFICATE
SECTION.OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY ISSUED UNDER THIS

(2) A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION SHALL ~~PROCESS~~
APPROVE OR DENY ANY LOCAL PERMITS REQUIRED UNDER A CERTIFICATE OF
SECTION:PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY ISSUED UNDER THIS

(I) TIME;WITHIN A REASONABLE AND

(II) TO THE EXTENT LOCAL LAWS ARE NOT PREEMPTED BY
STATE LAW, LAWS.IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL

(3) A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION MAY NOT CONDITION
THE APPROVAL OF A LOCAL PERMIT REQUIRED UNDER A CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC
ON:CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY ISSUED UNDER THIS SECTION

~~(I)~~ RECEIPT OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ~~REVIEWS~~ ~~OR~~
STATION,APPROVALS FOR ANY ASPECT OF A GENERATING AN OVERHEAD
LINE,TRANSMISSION OR A QUALIFIED LEAD LINE PROPOSED TO BE CONSTRUCTED
CERTIFICATE:UNDER THE

~~1.~~ (I) APPROVAL;A CONDITIONAL USE

~~2.~~ (II) APPROVAL;A SPECIAL EXCEPTION OR

~~3.~~ (III) APPROVAL; ~~OR.~~A FLOATING ZONE

~~4.~~ ~~APPROVAL;~~~~ANY~~ ~~DISCRETIONARY~~ ~~REVIEW~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~A~~ ~~FINDING~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~
~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROJECT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~CONSISTENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ALLOWED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMPREHENSIVE~~
~~CORPORATION.~~~~PLAN~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ZONING~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That it is the intent of the General
Assembly that nothing in this Act shall be interpreted to abrogate, modify, or limit the
holding of the Supreme Court of Maryland in Board of County Commissioners of
Washington County, Maryland v. Perennial Solar, LLC, 464 Md. 610 (2019).

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 515 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 4 –