PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 668

Chapter 668

(House Bill 614)

AN ACT concerning

Department of Aging – Long–Term Care and Dementia Care Navigation
Programs

FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Aging to oversee long–term care and
dementia care navigation programs; requiring each area agency to establish a
long–term care and dementia care navigation program; requiring the Department to
publish a certain report on its website; and generally relating to long–term care and
dementia care and the Department of Aging.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Human Services
Section 10–101(a) and (b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Human Services
Section 10–1301 through 10–1303 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 13.
~~Dementia~~ Long–Term Care and Dementia Care Navigation Programs”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Human Services

10–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Area agency” means the local agency that the Department designates in
accordance with the Older Americans Act of 1965 to administer the delivery of a
comprehensive and coordinated plan of social and other services and activities for seniors
in a planning and service area.

SUBTITLE 13. ~~DEMENTIA~~ LONG–TERM CARE DEMENTIA CARE NAVIGATIONAND
PROGRAMS.

10–1301.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 668 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(1) (B) SECTION,SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION OF THIS OVERSEE AND
LONG–TERMTRAIN THE STAFF OF CARE AND DEMENTIA CARE NAVIGATION
SUBTITLE;PROGRAMS UNDER THIS AND

(2) DISSEMINATE BEST PRACTICES AND COLLECT INTERACTION DATA
INTEGRITY.TO ENSURE STATEWIDE PROGRAM

(B) THE LONG–TERMWORK OF THE CARE AND DEMENTIA CARE
NAVIGATION PROGRAMS UNDER THIS SUBTITLE SHALL BE GUIDED BY THE
OF:RECOMMENDATIONS

(1) STATE PLAN AGING;THE ON AND

(2) VIRGINIA I. JONES ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE RELATEDTHE AND
DEMENTIAS COUNCIL TITLE 13, SUBTITLE 32 HEALTH – GENERALUNDER OF THE
ARTICLE.

(C) (1) ON OCTOBER 1, 2024, OCTOBER 1OR BEFORE AND EACH
THEREAFTER, DEPARTMENT GOVERNORTHE SHALL SUBMIT A REPORT TO THE
AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE THE
PRESIDENT SENATE, SPEAKER HOUSE, SENATE FINANCEOF THE THE OF THE THE
COMMITTEE, HOUSE HEALTH GOVERNMENT OPERATIONSAND THE AND
COMMITTEE, SUBTITLE.ON THE SERVICES PROVIDED UNDER THIS

(2) THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION SHALL
INCLUDE:

(I) LONG–TERMTHE NUMBER OF DIRECT CONTACTS EACH
STATE RESIDENTS;CARE AND DEMENTIA CARE NAVIGATION PROGRAM HAS WITH
AND

(II) CONTACT, INCLUDING:THE RESULT OF EACH DIRECT

1. THE PERCENTAGE OF INDIVIDUALS REFERRED TO
PROVIDERS;SERVICE

2. THE NUMBER OF COGNITIVE ~~ASSESSMENTS~~
CONDUCTED;SCREENINGS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 668

3. CONDUCTED;THE NUMBER OF OUTREACH EVENTS
AND

4. STATETHE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS CONTACTED
EVENTS.THROUGH OUTREACH

(3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PUBLISH THE REPORT REQUIRED
DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE.UNDER THIS SUBSECTION ON THE

10–1302.

(A) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS EACH AREA
LONG–TERMAGENCY SHALL ~~ESTABLISH~~ ~~A~~ DEVELOP A CARE AND DEMENTIA CARE
SERVICES.NAVIGATION PROGRAM THAT CONSISTS OF NEW OR EXISTING

(2) (I) AN AREA AGENCY MAY STAFF THE PROGRAM FROM
PROGRAM.EXISTING RESOURCES OR HIRE AN INDIVIDUAL FOR THE

(II) SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATION OF THE FUNDING PROVIDED
§ 10–1303 SUBTITLE,TO EACH AREA AGENCY UNDER OF THIS EACH AREA AGENCY
(1)SHALL IMPLEMENT THE PROGRAM DEVELOPED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION.

(B) SUBJECT (C) SECTION,TO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE DUTIES OF THE
LONG–TERM INCLUDE:CARE AND DEMENTIA CARE NAVIGATION PROGRAM

(1) LONG–TERMPROVIDING INFORMATION AND REFERRALS TO CARE
SERVICES;AND CHRONIC DISEASE

(2) PROVIDING COGNITIVE ~~ASSESSMENTS~~ SCREENING FOR
COGNITION;INDIVIDUALS CONCERNED WITH THEIR

~~(2)~~ (3) PROVIDING PROGRAMS THAT ENGAGE INDIVIDUALS WHO
DEMONSTRATE SYMPTOMS OF DEMENTIA THAT INTERFERE WITH ACTIVITIES OF
LIVING, EXERCISE, ACTIVITIES;DAILY REGULAR AND SOCIAL

~~(3)~~ (4) PROVIDING SUPPORT FOR CAREGIVERS OF INDIVIDUALS
WHO DEMONSTRATE SYMPTOMS OF DEMENTIA THAT INTERFERE WITH ACTIVITIES
LIVING;OF DAILY

~~(4)~~ (5) CONSULTING WITH AND PROVIDING TECHNICAL
WITH:ASSISTANCE TO AREA AGENCY STAFF WHO INTERACT WITH INDIVIDUALS

(I) DIAGNOSES;DEMENTIA OR
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 668 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) COGNITIVE CHANGES THAT MAY BE ASSOCIATED WITH
DEMENTIA; AND

~~(5)~~ (6) ESTABLISHING RELATIONSHIPS WITH HEALTH CARE
AND:PROVIDERS TO FACILITATE CONTACT BETWEEN HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS

(I) INDIVIDUALS WHO DEMONSTRATE SYMPTOMS OF
LIVING;DEMENTIA THAT INTERFERE WITH ACTIVITIES OF DAILY AND

(II) CAREGIVERS OF INDIVIDUALS WHO DEMONSTRATE
LIVING;SYMPTOMS OF DEMENTIA THAT INTERFERE WITH ACTIVITIES OF DAILY ~~AND~~

~~(6)~~ ~~SERVICE.~~~~PROVIDING~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~APPROPRIATE~~

(C) THE (B)SERVICES PROVIDED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION
§§ 10–307SHALL BE PROVIDED ALONG WITH THE SERVICES DESCRIBED IN AND
10–309 TITLE.OF THIS

10–1303.

(A) FOR 2025 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR THE
GOVERNOR SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF
$2,400,000 LONG–TERMTO MANAGE THE CARE AND DEMENTIA CARE NAVIGATION
LOCALLY.PROGRAMS STATEWIDE AND TO FUND THE PROGRAMS

(B) THE FUNDS APPROPRIATED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL BE
DISTRIBUTED PROPORTIONALLY TO EACH AREA AGENCY BASED ON A FORMULA
DEPARTMENTDETERMINED BY THE THAT CONSIDERS THE ~~NEEDS~~ ~~OF~~ NUMBER OF
LONG–TERMINDIVIDUALS WHO WILL LIKELY NEED CARE OR DEMENTIA CARE
JURISDICTION.SERVICES IN EACH

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 4 –