PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 738

Chapter 738

(House Bill 680)

AN ACT concerning

Income Tax – Student Loan Debt Relief Tax Credit – Alterations

FOR the purpose of increasing the total amount of credits against the State income tax that
the Maryland Higher Education Commission may approve in a taxable year for
certain individuals with certain student loan debt amounts; requiring the
Commission to reserve a certain amount of the total amount of credits that the
Commission is authorized to approve for certain qualified taxpayers; extending the
period of time that an individual who claims the credit has to prove that the
individual used the credit to repay the individual’s student loan debt; requiring the
Office of Student Financial Assistance to inform certain recipients of scholarships of
the availability of the credit under this Act; providing for the retroactive application
of certain provisions of this Act; and generally relating to the Student Loan Debt
Relief Tax Credit.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Tax – General
Section 10–740
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 18–206
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Tax – General

10–740.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Commission” means the Maryland Higher Education Commission.

(3) “Qualified taxpayer” means an individual who has:

(i) incurred at least $20,000 in undergraduate or graduate student
loan debt or both; and
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 738 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) has at least $5,000 in outstanding undergraduate or graduate
student loan debt or both when submitting an application under subsection (c) of this
section.

(b) Subject to the limitations of this section, a qualified taxpayer may claim a
credit against the State income tax for the taxable year in which the Commission certifies
a tax credit under this section.

(c) (1) (i) By September 15 of each year, an individual shall submit an
application to the Commission for the credit allowed under this section.

(ii) The individual shall submit with the application an assurance
that the individual will use any credit approved under this section for the repayment of the
individual’s undergraduate or graduate student loan debt or both as soon as practicable.

(iii) 1. The total amount of the credit claimed under this section
shall be recaptured if the individual does not use the credit approved under this section for
the repayment of the individual’s undergraduate or graduate student loan debt or both
[2] ~~5~~ 3within years from the close of the taxable year for which the credit is claimed.

2. The individual who claimed the credit shall pay the total
amount of the credit claimed as taxes payable to the State for the taxable year in which the
event requiring recapture of the credit occurs.

(2) By December 15 of each year the Commission shall certify to the
individual the amount of any tax credit approved by the Commission under this section,
not to exceed $5,000.

(3) For any taxable year, the total amount of credits approved by theTAX
[$9,000,000] $18,000,000.Commission under this section may not exceed

(4) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, COMMISSION ~~$5,000,000~~ $9,000,000THE SHALL RESERVE OF THE TAX
(3)CREDITS AUTHORIZED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION FOR
~~BLACK~~~~GRADUATES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~HISTORICALLY~~ ~~COLLEGES~~ ~~OR~~ ~~UNIVERSITIES~~ THE
PRIORITY:FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS IN THE FOLLOWING ORDER OF

1. STATE EMPLOYEES WHO GRADUATED FROM
STATE 40%INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN THE WHERE AT LEAST OF THE
PELL GRANTS;ATTENDEES ARE ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE FEDERAL AND

2. STATEALL OTHER EMPLOYEES NOT DESCRIBED
1 SUBPARAGRAPH.UNDER ITEM OF THIS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 738

(II) IF THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF TAX CREDITS APPLIED FOR BY
~~BLACK~~~~GRADUATES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~HISTORICALLY~~ ~~COLLEGES~~ ~~OR~~ ~~UNIVERSITIES~~ INDIVIDUALS
(I)DESCRIBED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH IS LESS THAN
~~$5,000,000~~ $9,000,000 YEAR, COMMISSIONFOR A TAXABLE THE MAY MAKE
AVAILABLE THE UNUSED AMOUNT OF CREDITS FOR USE BY OTHER QUALIFIED
TAXPAYERS.

[(4)] (5) To claim the tax credit allowed under this section, an individual
shall attach a copy of the Commission’s certification of the approved credit amount to the
income tax return.

SUBJECT (C)(4) SECTION,(d) ~~The~~ CommissionTO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
CRITERIA:shall prioritize tax credit recipients and amounts based on THE FOLLOWING

(1) ARE,WHETHER THE QUALIFIED TAXPAYERS ~~WITHIN~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSION,~~~~DISCRETION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOW~~ ~~INCOME~~ ~~EARNERS~~ GRADUATES FROM
STATE 40%INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN THE WHERE AT LEAST OF THE
PELL GRANTS;ATTENDEES ARE ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE FEDERAL AND

(2) COMMISSION,IN AN ORDER OF PRIORITY DETERMINED BY THE
[who]:qualified taxpayersWHETHER THE

[(1)] (I) have higher debt burden to income ratios;

[(2)] (II) graduated from an institution of higher education located in the
State;

[(3)] (III) did not receive a tax credit in a prior year; or

[(4)] (IV) were eligible for in–State tuition.

(e) If the tax credit allowed under this section in any taxable year exceeds the
total tax otherwise payable by the qualified taxpayer for that taxable year, the qualified
taxpayer may claim a refund in the amount of the excess.

2024,(f) The Commission shall establish and implement by September 1, ~~2016~~
to:an outreach and marketing plan

(1) make eligible taxpayers aware of the availability of the tax credit
section;provided under this AND

(2) STATEENCOURAGE INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN THE
GRADUATES,TO ADVISE NEW PARTICULARLY THOSE WITH AN INTEREST IN PUBLIC

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 738 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SERVICE, OF THE AVAILABILITY OF THE TAX CREDIT PROVIDED UNDER THIS
SECTION.

(G) ON JANUARY 1 YEAR, COMMISSIONOR BEFORE EACH THE SHALL
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257 STATEREPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY ON:THE

(1) THE NUMBER OF APPLICANTS FOR THE TAX CREDIT AUTHORIZED
SECTION;UNDER THIS

(2) THE NUMBER AND AMOUNTS OF TAX CREDITS AWARDED UNDER
TAXPAYERS;THIS SECTION TO QUALIFIED

(3) AGE, GENDER, RACE, INCOME,A BREAKDOWN OF THE AND
CREDIT;COUNTIES OF RESIDENCY OF QUALIFIED TAXPAYERS WHO RECEIVE THE
AND

(4) COMMISSIONANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THAT THE DEEMS
RELEVANT.

[(g)] (H) The Commission shall adopt regulations to carry out the provisions of
this section.

[(h)] (I) The tax credit under this section shall be referred to as the Student
Loan Debt Relief Tax Credit.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Education

18–206.

FOR TITLE, OFFICEEACH AWARD OF A SCHOLARSHIP UNDER THIS THE SHALL
INFORM THE RECIPIENT OF THE SCHOLARSHIP OF THE AVAILABILITY OF THE
§ 10–740(C)(4) TAX – GENERAL ARTICLEINCOME TAX CREDIT UNDER OF THE FOR
STATE EMPLOYEES.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That § 10–740(c)(1)(iii) of the
Tax – General Article, as amended by Section 1 of this Act, shall be construed to apply
retroactively and shall be applied to and interpreted to affect credits claimed under §
10–740 of the Tax – General Article for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2019.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 738

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, except as provided in Section
3 of this Act, Section 1 of this Act shall be applicable to all taxable years beginning after
December 31, 2022.

SECTION ~~3.~~ 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
July 1, 2023, ~~and,~~ ~~except~~ ~~as~~ ~~provided~~ ~~in~~ ~~Section~~ ~~2~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~applicable~~ ~~to~~ ~~all~~
~~taxable~~ ~~years~~ ~~beginning~~ ~~after~~ ~~December~~ ~~31,~~ ~~2022.~~

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 5 –