PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 591

Chapter 591

(House Bill 676)

AN ACT concerning

Cemeteries – Interment – Pet Remains ~~–~~ ~~Duty~~ ~~of~~ ~~Perpetual~~ ~~Care~~

FOR the purpose of making certain provisions of law governing cemeteries applicable to pet
cemeteries; providing that a certain registered cemeterian, registered crematory
operator, or permit holder who sells or offers to sell to the public certain services for
pet remains owes a duty of perpetual care for the cemetery in which certain pet
remains are interred; requiring the Director of the Office of Cemetery Oversight to
adopt regulations to enforce certain provisions of this Act; and generally relating to
~~perpetual~~ ~~care~~ ~~for~~ ~~cemeteries~~ ~~that~~ ~~inter~~ the interment of pet remains.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 5–101(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section ~~5–101(o)~~ ~~through~~ ~~(u)~~ 5–101(l) and (o) through (u), 5–704(a), and 5–708(d)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Business Regulation
Section 5–101(o) and 5–804
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Business Regulation

5–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(l) “Interment” means all final disposition of human remains REMAINS,OR PET
including:

(1) earth burial;
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 591 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) mausoleum entombment; and

(3) niche or columbarium interment.

(O) (1) “PET REMAINS” MEANS THE BODY OF A DECEASED ANIMAL THAT
PET.WAS KEPT AS A

(2) “PET REMAINS” INCLUDES THE BODY OF A PET OR A PART OF A
PET’S BODY IN ANY STATE OF DECOMPOSITION OR THE BODY OF A PET AFTER
CREMATED.HAVING BEEN

[(o)] (P) (1) “Preneed goods” means burial goods that are sold before the
buyer’s death.

(2) “Preneed goods” does not include burial space.

[(p)] (Q) “Provide burial goods” means a retail transaction:

(1) to erect, service, or inscribe burial memorials; or

(2) to sell burial goods.

[(q)] (R) “Registered cemeterian” means an individual registered to operate a
cemetery as a sole proprietor or on behalf of a sole proprietor or of a permit holder.

[(r)] (S) “Registered crematory operator” means an individual registered to
operate a crematory as a sole proprietor or on behalf of a sole proprietor or permit holder.

[(s)] (T) “Registered seller” means an individual registered to provide burial
goods as a sole proprietor or on behalf of a sole proprietor or of a permit holder.

[(t)] (U) “Registration” means a registration issued by the Director authorizing
an individual to operate a cemetery, to operate a crematory, or to provide burial goods.

[(u)] (V) “Responsible party” means a sole proprietor or the individual
designated by a partnership, limited liability company, or corporation to be responsible for
the operations of a cemetery, crematory, or burial goods business.

5–704.

(a) A preneed burial contract shall contain:

(1) the name of the buyer;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 591

(2) the name of the seller;

(3) the name of each individual, other than the buyer, as to whom the
preneed goods or preneed services are to be furnished;

PET, APPLICABLE;(4) THE NAME OF THE IF

(5) a description of the preneed goods or preneed services; and

[(5)] (6) the amount of the buyer’s financial obligation.

5–708.

(d) (1) If a preneed burial contract provides, for 2 or more individuals PETS,OR
preneed goods or preneed services to which the trust requirements of this subtitle apply, a
seller may designate in the seller’s records the consideration paid for each individual OR
PET.

5–804.

(A) IN SECTION, “PERPETUAL CARE” §THIS HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
5–601 TITLE.OF THIS

(B) A CEMETERIAN, OPERATOR,REGISTERED REGISTERED CREMATORY OR
CEMETERY, CREMATORY,PERMIT HOLDER THAT ENGAGES IN THE OPERATION OF A
OR BURIAL GOODS BUSINESS WHO SELLS OR OFFERS TO SELL TO THE PUBLIC
SERVICES, LOT,CREMATION A BURIAL OR A BURIAL RIGHT IN A CEMETERY FOR PET
REMAINS AS TO WHICH PERPETUAL CARE IS STATED OR IMPLIED OWES A DUTY OF
INTERRED.PERPETUAL CARE FOR THE CEMETERY IN WHICH THE PET REMAINS ARE

(C) THE DIRECTOR §SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH
5–204(A) SECTION.OF THIS TITLE TO ENFORCE THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 3 –