PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 387

Chapter 387

(House Bill 669)

AN ACT concerning

Real Estate Appraisers – Licensing and Certification – Qualifications

FOR the purpose of altering the qualifications for a real estate appraisal license and for a
certificate for residential or general real estate appraisal to include completion of
certain criteria in the Practical Applications of Real Estate Appraisal program; and
generally relating to qualifications for the real estate appraisal license and for a
certificate for residential or general real estate appraisal.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Business Occupations and Professions
Section 16–302 and 16–503
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Business Occupations and Professions

16–302.

(a) To qualify for a real estate appraisal license, an applicant shall be an
individual who meets the requirements of this section.

(b) An applicant shall be of good character and reputation.

(c) An applicant shall be at least 18 years old.

(d) (1) An applicant shall satisfy the minimum real estate appraiser
qualifications for licensure established under the federal Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.

completed:(2) An applicant shall have

(I) at least 1,000 hours providing real estate appraiser services as a
appraiser;real estate appraiser trainee under the supervision of a certified OR

(II) REAL PROPERTY APPRAISER QUALIFICATIONTHE
CRITERIA PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS REAL ESTATE APPRAISALOF THE OF
APPRAISAL FOUNDATION APPRAISERPROGRAM ADOPTED BY THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 387 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

QUALIFICATIONS BOARD FINANCIALAUTHORIZED UNDER THE FEDERAL
INSTITUTIONS REFORM, RECOVERY, ENFORCEMENT ACT 1989.AND OF

(3) Classroom hours of study required by this section may be conducted by:

(i) an accredited university, college, or community or junior college;

(ii) an approved appraisal society, institute, or association; or

(iii) another school that the Commission approves.

(4) The Commission shall approve all courses of study required under this
section.

(e) Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, the applicant shall pass an
examination given by the Commission or the Commission’s designee under this subtitle.

(f) (1) If an applicant is not a resident of the State, the applicant shall submit
to the Commission an irrevocable consent, as provided under this subsection.

(2) The consent required under this section shall specify that service of
process on the Secretary shall bind the applicant in any action about the provision of real
estate appraisal services brought against the applicant in any county of the State.

(g) The Commission shall adopt additional requirements under this section if
necessary to comply with the minimum real estate appraiser qualifications established
under the federal Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.

(h) The Commission may monitor and review any course of study approved under
this section.

16–503.

(a) To qualify for a certificate for residential or general real estate appraisal, an
applicant shall be an individual who meets the requirements of this section.

(b) (1) An applicant shall:

(i) be of good character and reputation;

(ii) be at least 18 years old; and

(iii) satisfy the minimum real estate appraiser qualifications for
residential certification or general certification, as appropriate, established under the
federal Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 387

completed:(2) An applicant shall have

(I) at least 1,500 hours providing real estate appraiser services as a
appraiser;real estate appraiser trainee under the supervision of a certified OR

(II) REAL PROPERTY APPRAISER QUALIFICATIONTHE
CRITERIA PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS REAL ESTATE APPRAISALOF THE OF
APPRAISAL FOUNDATION APPRAISERPROGRAM ADOPTED BY THE
QUALIFICATIONS BOARD FINANCIALAUTHORIZED UNDER THE FEDERAL
INSTITUTIONS REFORM, RECOVERY, ENFORCEMENT ACT 1989.AND OF

(3) Classroom hours of study required under this section may be conducted
by:

(i) an accredited university, college, or community or junior college;

(ii) an approved appraisal society, institute, or association; or

(iii) another school that the Commission approves.

(4) The Commission shall approve all courses of study required under this
section.

(c) An applicant shall pass the examination for a certificate for residential or
general real estate appraisal given by the Commission or the Commission’s designee under
this subtitle.

(d) (1) If an applicant is not a resident of the State, the applicant shall submit
to the Commission an irrevocable consent, as provided under this subsection.

(2) The consent required under this subsection shall specify that service of
process on the Secretary of State shall bind the applicant in any action about the provision
of certified real estate appraisal services against the applicant in any county of the State.

(e) An applicant shall meet any other requirement that the Commission adopts
by regulation.

(f) The Commission shall adopt additional requirements under this section if
necessary to comply with the minimum real estate appraiser qualifications established
under the federal Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 3 –