PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 82

Chapter 82

(House Bill 644)

AN ACT concerning

Frederick County – Alcoholic Beverages Licenses – Golf Simulator Facility

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Frederick County
to issue a Class B–GSF (golf simulator facility) license to a golf simulator facility
under certain circumstances; authorizing the license holder to sell beer, wine, and
liquor for on–premises consumption under certain circumstances; requiring the
license holder to submit a certain report to the Board before a license may be
renewed; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Frederick County.

BY renumbering
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 20–1009
to be Section 20–1008
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 20–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 20–1009
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 20–1009 of Article – Alcoholic Beverages of the Annotated Code of Maryland
be renumbered to be Section(s) 20–1008.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

20–102.

This title applies only in Frederick County.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 82 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

20–1009.

(A) THERE CLASS B–GSF (GOLF FACILITY) LICENSE.IS A SIMULATOR

(B) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE THE LICENSE FOR USE BY A GOLF SIMULATOR
THAT:FACILITY

(1) PUBLIC;IS OPEN TO THE

(2) BAYS;HAS AT LEAST FIVE GOLF SIMULATOR AND

(3) HAS ACCOMMODATIONS THAT ARE PREDOMINANTLY DEDICATED
TO GOLF SIMULATOR BAYS AND SEATING DEDICATED TO THE GOLF SIMULATOR
BAYS.

(C) AN BOARDAPPLICANT FOR THE LICENSE SHALL SUBMIT TO THE A
FLOOR PLAN OR LAYOUT OF THE PROPOSED LICENSED PREMISES THAT
ILLUSTRATES THAT THE PROPOSED LICENSED PREMISES IS PREDOMINANTLY
DEDICATED TO GOLF SIMULATOR BAYS AND HAS SEATING DEDICATED TO THE GOLF
BAYS.SIMULATOR

(D) THE BEER, WINE,LICENSE HOLDER MAY SELL AND LIQUOR FOR
ON–PREMISES CONSUMPTION:

(1) ON–PREMISESIF THE LICENSE HOLDER OFFERS FOOD AT ALL
SOLD;TIMES WHEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ARE BEING AND

(2) §DURING NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
20–2005 TITLE.OF THIS

(E) (1) THE HOLDER’S FROM:LICENSE ANNUAL GROSS SALES

(I) 35%ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES MAY NOT EXCEED OF THE
FACILITY;ANNUAL GROSS SALES OF THE GOLF SIMULATOR

(II) GOLF SIMULATOR BAY RENTAL FEES SHALL BE AT LEAST
50% FACILITY;OF THE ANNUAL GROSS SALES OF THE GOLF SIMULATOR AND

(III) 15%FOOD SHALL BE AT LEAST OF THE ANNUAL GROSS
FACILITY.SALES OF THE GOLF SIMULATOR

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 82

(2) BEFORE BOARD LICENSE,THE MAY RENEW THE THE LICENSE
BOARDHOLDER SHALL PROVIDE THE WITH AN ANNUAL GROSS SALES REPORT FOR
ALCOHOL, FEES,GOLF SIMULATOR BAY RENTAL AND FOOD THAT SHOWS THE
(1)LICENSE HOLDER HAS MET THE REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION.

(F) THE $1,500.ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IS

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 3 –