PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 140

Chapter 140

(House Bill 690)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland African American Museum Corporation – Board of Directors
– Membership

FOR the purpose of altering the membership of the Board of Directors of the Maryland
African American Museum Corporation; and generally relating to the Maryland
African American Museum Corporation.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–2603(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–2603(b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

9–2603.

(a) (1) There is a Board of Directors of the Corporation.

(2) The Board shall manage the affairs of the Corporation and shall
exercise all of its corporate powers.

~~[37~~ 25 ~~follows]~~(b) (1) The Board shall consist of members, as ~~THE~~
~~MEMBERS:~~~~FOLLOWING~~

(i) the Mayor of Baltimore, serving ex officio, or the Mayor’s
designee; ~~and~~

(II) PRESIDENTONE MEMBER APPOINTED BY THE OF THE
SENATE;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 140 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(III) SPEAKER HOUSE;ONE MEMBER APPOINTED BY THE OF THE
AND

(IV) [thirty–six]~~(ii)~~ members appointed by theTHE FOLLOWING
Governor[, follows]:as

1. one representative of Morgan State University, approved
by the Board of Regents of the University;

[the of]2. chairman theONE MEMBER APPROVED BY
[orCommission on African American History and Culture the chairman’s designee and two
Commission,]other Commission members approved by the to provide continuing
coordination and cooperation between the Corporation and the Commission and to ensure
consistency with the statewide programs and mandates of the Commission;

[four representatives]3. of AfricanONE REPRESENTATIVE
American historical or cultural institutions in the State; and

[twenty–eight]4. members who have expertiseNINETEEN
in African American history, culture, museums, or related areas, expertise in fund–raising,
or represent the diversity of communities throughout the State that can benefit from the
activities of the Corporation.

(2) (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
members appointed to the Board shall represent the geographic makeup of the State and
shall be racially and ethnically diverse.

(ii) The Governor may appoint to the Board up to five members from
outside the State if necessary to ensure that the membership of the Board satisfies the
requirements specified in paragraph (1)(ii)4 of this subsection.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 2 –