PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 447

Chapter 447

(House Bill 626)

AN ACT concerning

Animal Testing and Research – Human–Relevant Research Funding and Animal
Testing and Research ~~Licensure~~ Contributions

FOR the purpose of establishing the Human–Relevant Research Fund under the
administration of the Maryland Technology Development Corporation as a special,
nonlapsing fund; requiring that the interest earnings of the Fund be credited to the
Fund; requiring the Corporation to establish a grant and loan program to provide
grants and loans for State–funded, human–relevant animal testing alternatives
research; requiring ~~a~~ ~~person,~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~after~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~date,~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~issued~~ ~~a~~ ~~license~~ ~~by~~
certain ~~persons~~ research facilities who engage in animal testing or research to pay a
certain contribution to the Secretary of Health ~~before~~ ~~the~~ ~~person~~ ~~may~~ ~~use~~ ~~nonhuman~~
~~animals~~ ~~to~~ ~~conduct~~ ~~medical~~ ~~or~~ ~~product~~ ~~testing~~ ~~or~~ ~~research~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State;~~ and generally
relating to the Human–Relevant Research Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 10–401(a) and (c) ~~and~~ ~~10–429(a)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(g)~~
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 10–4D–01 through 10–4D–06 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 4D.
Human–Relevant Research Fund and Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 24–2201 through ~~24–2205~~ 24–2203 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 22.
Animal Testing and Research ~~License~~ Contribution”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(1) and (2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 447 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

10–401.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(c) “Corporation” means the Maryland Technology Development Corporation.

~~10–429.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~In~~ ~~this~~ ~~part~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~words~~ ~~have~~ ~~the~~ ~~meanings~~ ~~indicated.~~

~~(g)~~ ~~“Institutional~~ ~~review~~ ~~board”~~ ~~has~~ ~~the~~ ~~meaning~~ ~~stated~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~federal~~ ~~regulations~~
~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~protection~~ ~~of~~ ~~human~~ ~~subjects.~~

SUBTITLE 4D. HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH FUND PROGRAM.AND

10–4D–01.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING TERMS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “BOARD” HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH REVIEW BOARDMEANS THE
§ 10–4D–04 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(C) “CORPORATION” § 10–401 TITLE.HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THIS

(D) “FUND” HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH FUND.MEANS THE

~~(E)~~ ~~“INSTITUTIONAL~~ ~~BOARD”~~ ~~§~~~~REVIEW~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANING~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~
~~10–429~~ ~~TITLE.~~~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 447

10–4D–02.

(A) THERE HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH FUND.IS A

(B) THE FUND STATE–FUNDEDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROMOTE
HUMAN–RELEVANTRESEARCH INTENDED TO DEVELOP ALTERNATIVES TO USING
NONHUMAN ANIMALS IN MEDICAL AND PRODUCT TESTING AND RESEARCH
STATE.THROUGH GRANTS AND LOANS TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ENTITIES IN THE

(C) THE CORPORATION FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) FUND ~~§~~ ~~24–2203~~ §REVENUE DISTRIBUTED TO THE UNDER
24–2202 HEALTH – GENERAL ARTICLE;OF THE

(2) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(3) FUND;INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE AND

(4) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(F) MONEY FUND TO:IN THE MAY BE USED ONLY

(1) STATE–FUNDED,AWARD GRANTS AND LOANS FOR
HUMAN–RELEVANT ANIMAL TESTING ALTERNATIVES RESEARCH IN ACCORDANCE
BOARD;WITH THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE AND

(2) FUND.PAY THE COSTS NECESSARY TO ADMINISTER THE

(G) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY IN THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 447 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(H) (1) THE GOVERNOR STATEMAY INCLUDE IN THE BUDGET BILL EACH
FUND.FISCAL YEAR AN APPROPRIATION TO THE

(2) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN
STATE BUDGET.ACCORDANCE WITH THE

10–4D–03.

(A) SUBJECT SUBTITLE, CORPORATIONTO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS THE
SHALL ESTABLISH A GRANT AND LOAN PROGRAM TO PROVIDE GRANTS AND LOANS
STATE–FUNDED, HUMAN–RELEVANTFOR ANIMAL TESTING ALTERNATIVES
RESEARCH.

(B) A GRANT OR LOAN AWARDED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE IS CONTINGENT ON
RECIPIENT:THE

~~(1)~~ ~~BOARD~~~~SUBMITTING~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPROVAL~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INSTITUTIONAL~~
~~BOARD;~~~~REVIEW~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ENTERING INTO A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH THE
CORPORATION THAT:

~~(I)~~ (1) STATE’SESTABLISHES THE SCOPE OF THE
OWNERSHIP OR OTHER FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE COMMERCIALIZATION AND
RESULTS, PRODUCTS, INVENTIONS,OTHER BENEFITS OF THE AND DISCOVERIES
STATE–FUNDED, HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH;RESULTING FROM AND

~~(II)~~ (2) TO THE EXTENT CONSISTENT WITH FEDERAL AND
STATE LAW, REFLECTS THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICIES OF THE
CORPORATION.

(C) ~~A~~ ~~RECIPIENT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~SUBMIT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPROVAL~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(B)(1)~~ ~~6~~~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~MONTHS~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AWARD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~LOAN.~~~~GRANT~~ ~~OR~~

~~(D)~~ THE CORPORATION MAY NOT DISBURSE GRANT OR LOAN MONEY TO A
(B)RECIPIENT UNTIL THE RECIPIENT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF SUBSECTION
SECTION.OF THIS

10–4D–04.

(A) THE CORPORATION SHALL CONTRACT WITH AN INDEPENDENT
SCIENTIFIC REVIEW BOARD COMPOSED OF RECOGNIZED SCIENTIFIC EXPERTS IN

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 447

HUMAN–RELEVANTTHE FIELD OF ANIMAL TESTING ALTERNATIVES TO ACT AS THE
HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH REVIEW BOARD.

(B) THE BOARD SHALL:

(1) REVIEW, EVALUATE, RANK, AND RATE RESEARCH PROPOSALS FOR
STATE–FUNDED, HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH:ANIMAL TESTING ALTERNATIVES

(I) BASED ON THE PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES
CORPORATION;ESTABLISHED BY THE AND

(II) IN A MANNER THAT GIVES DUE CONSIDERATION TO THE
SCIENTIFIC, MEDICAL, RESEARCH;AND ETHICAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE AND

(2) BASED ON THE RANKINGS AND RATINGS AWARDED TO THE
BOARD,RESEARCH PROPOSALS BY THE MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE
CORPORATION LOANS.FOR THE AWARD AND DISBURSEMENT OF GRANTS AND

(C) A BOARD:MEMBER OF THE

(1) IS NOT ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE A GRANT OR LOAN FOR
STATE–FUNDED, HUMAN–RELEVANT FUND;RESEARCH FROM THE AND

(2) SHALL BE SUBJECT TO CONFLICT OF INTEREST STANDARDS THAT
ARE AT LEAST AS STRINGENT AS THE STANDARDS ON CONFLICT OF INTEREST
NATIONAL INSTITUTES HEALTH.ADOPTED BY THE FEDERAL OF

10–4D–05.

THE CORPORATION, BOARD,IN CONSULTATION WITH THE SHALL ADOPT
REGULATIONS TO ESTABLISH PROCEDURES FOR AWARDING AND MAKING THE
LOAN.DISBURSEMENT OF A GRANT OR

10–4D–06.

(A) ON JANUARY 1 YEAR, CORPORATIONOR BEFORE EACH THE AND THE
BOARD GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257SHALL REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYTHE THE ON THE PROGRESS
HUMAN–RELEVANTOF THE ANIMAL TESTING ALTERNATIVES RESEARCH
CONDUCTED WITH MONEY FROM GRANTS OR LOANS AWARDED UNDER THIS
SUBTITLE.

(B) THE IDENTIFY:REPORT SHALL

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 447 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) FUND;EACH RECIPIENT OF MONEY FROM THE

(2) RECIPIENT;THE AMOUNT OF MONEY AWARDED TO EACH AND

(3) STATE–FUNDED,A DESCRIPTION OF THE TYPE OF
HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH PERFORMED BY THE RECIPIENT AND THE ANIMAL
REPLACE.TESTS THE RESEARCH IS INTENDED TO

Article – Health – General

SUBTITLE 22. ANIMAL TESTING RESEARCH ~~LICENSE~~ CONTRIBUTION.AND

24–2201.

~~(A)~~ IN THIS SUBTITLE ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~WORDS~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANINGS~~
~~INDICATED.~~

~~(B)~~ ~~“LICENSE”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~
~~ANIMALS.~~~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~RESEARCH~~ ~~USING~~

~~(C)~~ ~~“LICENSEE”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~HOLDS~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~ISSUED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~SUBTITLE,~~ “ANIMAL PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE FORM 7023”~~THIS~~ AND
DEPARTMENTMEANS THE FORM REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE FEDERAL OF
AGRICULTURE 7 U.S.C. § 2143 9 C.F.R. § 2.36.UNDER AND

24–2202.

(A) ON JANUARY ~~1,~~ 15 YEAR, 2024,OR ~~AFTER~~ BEFORE EACH BEGINNING IN
STATE~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ EACH RESEARCH FACILITY THAT IS LOCATED IN THE AND IS
ANIMAL PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE FORMREQUIRED TO SUBMIT AN AND
7023 ~~SECRETARY~~SHALL ~~BE~~ ~~LICENSED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~USE~~
~~NONHUMAN~~ ~~ANIMALS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~ ~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~RESEARCH~~
~~STATE.~~~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~24–2203.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~SUBMIT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICATION~~
~~SECRETARY~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~REQUIRES.~~~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FORM~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INITIAL~~ ~~APPLICATION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REQUIRE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~TO~~
~~INCLUDE:~~

~~(I)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ANIMALS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~WILL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~USED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~
~~RESEARCH;~~~~THE~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~ ~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 447

~~(II)~~ ~~A~~ ~~LIST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SPECIES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ANIMALS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~WILL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~USED~~ ~~TO~~
~~RESEARCH;~~~~CONDUCT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~ ~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AND~~

~~(III)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~SECRETARY.~~~~OTHER~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~

~~(B)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~THE~~ DEPARTMENT~~ANNUAL~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~FEE~~ ~~IS~~ PAY TO THE A
OF:CONTRIBUTION IN THE AMOUNT

~~(I)~~ (1) $5,000 ~~500~~ 100 ANIMALS;FOR UP TO

~~(II)~~ (2) $10,000 ~~500~~ 100FOR MORE THAN BUT NOT MORE
~~1,000~~ 500 ANIMALS;THAN

~~(III)~~ (3) ~~$25,000~~ $55,000 ~~1,000~~ 500FOR MORE THAN BUT NOT
5,000 ANIMALS;MORE THAN

~~(IV)~~ ~~$35,000~~ ~~5,000~~ ~~10,000~~~~FOR~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~ ~~BUT~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~
~~ANIMALS;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(V)~~ (4) ~~$50,000~~ $75,000 ~~10,000~~ 5,000FOR MORE THAN
ANIMALS.

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~FEE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~BE~~ ~~PAID~~ ~~IN~~ ~~QUARTERLY~~
~~INSTALLMENTS.~~

(B) THE AMOUNT OF THE CONTRIBUTION TO BE PAID UNDER SUBSECTION
(A) OF THIS SECTION SHALL BE BASED ON THE TOTAL NUMBER OF ANIMALS
COLUMN F ANIMAL PLANTREPORTED IN ON THE MOST RECENTLY SUBMITTED AND
HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE FORM 7023.

(C) THE SECRETARY SHALL:

~~(1)~~ ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~LICENSING~~ ~~FEES~~ ~~NECESSARY~~ ~~TO~~
~~ACCOUNT;~~~~ADMINISTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSING~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ADMINISTRATIVE~~ ~~COST~~
~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ DISTRIBUTE THE ~~REMAINING~~ ~~FEES~~ FUNDS PAID
(A) HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCHUNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION TO THE
FUND § 10–4D–02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
ARTICLE ~~(1)~~~~AFTER~~ ~~MAKING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DISTRIBUTION~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~ITEM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBSECTION.~~

~~24–2204.~~

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 447 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(A)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ISSUE~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~WHO~~
~~§~~ ~~24–2203(A)~~~~SUBMITS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~AND~~
~~OF:~~~~ON~~ ~~PAYMENT~~

~~(I)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FEE;~~~~TOTAL~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FIRST~~ ~~QUARTERLY~~ ~~INSTALLMENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TOTAL~~
~~FEE.~~~~ANNUAL~~ ~~LICENSE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~1~~ ~~YEAR.~~~~TERM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~IS~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~DENY~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MAY~~
~~LICENSEE:~~~~SUSPEND~~ ~~OR~~ ~~REVOKE~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~OR~~

~~(1)~~ ~~FRAUDULENTLY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~DECEPTIVELY~~ ~~MAKES~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATEMENT~~ ~~ON~~ ~~AN~~
~~LICENSE;~~~~APPLICATION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~

~~(2)~~ ~~FAILS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~MAKE~~ ~~A~~ ~~QUARTERLY~~ ~~INSTALLMENT~~ ~~PAYMENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~FEE;~~~~ANNUAL~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(3)~~ ~~COMMITS~~ ~~FREQUENT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~NUMEROUS~~ ~~VIOLATIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(C)~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~SHALL:~~~~LICENSEE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~RECORD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~ANIMALS~~ ~~USED~~ ~~AND~~ ~~DISPOSED~~ ~~OF~~ ~~TO~~
~~RESEARCH,~~~~CONDUCT~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~ ~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~
~~USED;~~~~AND~~ ~~TYPES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ANIMALS~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~SUBMIT~~ ~~SECRETARY~~~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~A~~ ~~QUARTERLY~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~INCLUDING~~
~~(1)~~ ~~SUBSECTION.~~~~THE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~ITEM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(D)~~ ~~ON~~ ~~JANUARY~~ ~~1~~ ~~YEAR,~~ ~~2024,~~~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~SECRETARY~~ ~~GENERAL~~ ~~ASSEMBLY,~~ ~~§~~~~SHALL~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~
~~2–1257~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~GOVERNMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE,~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AGGREGATE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EACH~~
~~SPECIES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ANIMAL~~ ~~USED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~ ~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~RESEARCH~~ ~~BY~~
~~STATE.~~~~LICENSEES~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~24–2205.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~USE~~ ~~NONHUMAN~~ ~~ANIMALS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~
~~STATE~~~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~ ~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~RESEARCH~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNLESS~~ ~~LICENSED~~ ~~BY~~
~~SECRETARY.~~~~THE~~
– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 447

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~AID~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ABET~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNAUTHORIZED~~ ~~USE~~ ~~OF~~
~~NONHUMAN~~ ~~ANIMALS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCT~~ ~~TESTING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~RESEARCH~~
~~STATE.~~~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~(B)~~ ~~A~~ ~~(A)~~~~PERSON~~ ~~IN~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~IS~~
~~TO:~~~~GUILTY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~FELONY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ON~~ ~~CONVICTION~~ ~~IS~~ ~~SUBJECT~~

~~(1)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~OFFENSE,~~ ~~$5,000;~~~~A~~ ~~FIRST~~ ~~A~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~ ~~OR~~

~~(2)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~OFFENSE,~~~~EACH~~ ~~SUBSEQUENT~~ ~~A~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~
~~$20,000.~~

24–2203.

A RESEARCH FACILITY THAT FAILS TO PAY THE CONTRIBUTION REQUIRED
§ 24–2202(A)UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE MAY BE SUBJECT TO A CIVIL PENALTY OF
$1,000 DAY.NOT MORE THAN PER

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided by law or by regulation of the
Treasurer, the Treasurer shall credit to the General Fund any interest on or other income
from State money that the Treasurer invests.

(2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

Fund;171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair AND

172. HUMAN–RELEVANT RESEARCH FUND.THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 447 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 10 –