PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 437

Chapter 437

(House Bill 706)

AN ACT concerning

~~Economic~~ Community Development – Sustainable Communities – Business
Facade Improvement Program

FOR the purpose of establishing the Business Facade Improvement Program in the
Department of ~~Commerce~~ Housing and Community Development to assist certain
qualified businesses located in sustainable communities with improving the outside
appearance of the qualified businesses’ buildings or facilities; and generally relating
to the Business Facade Improvement Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – ~~Economic~~ ~~Development~~ Housing and Community Development
Section ~~1–101(a),~~ ~~(b),~~ ~~and~~ ~~(c)~~ 1–101(a), (c), (d), and (i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
~~(2018~~ (2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – ~~Economic~~ ~~Development~~ Housing and Community Development
Section ~~5–2301~~ ~~through~~ ~~5–2303~~ 6–1101 through 6–1103 to be under the new subtitle
“Subtitle ~~23.~~ 11. Business Facade Improvement Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
~~(2018~~ (2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Economic~~ ~~Development~~

~~1–101.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~In~~ ~~this~~ ~~division~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~words~~ ~~have~~ ~~the~~ ~~meanings~~ ~~indicated.~~

~~(b)~~ ~~“County”~~ ~~means~~ ~~a~~ ~~county~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~or~~ ~~Baltimore~~ ~~City.~~

~~(c)~~ ~~“Department”~~ ~~means~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Commerce.~~

Article – Housing and Community Development

1–101.

(a) In this Division I of this article the following words have the meanings
indicated.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 437 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(c) “County” means a county of the State or Baltimore City.

(d) “Department” means the Department of Housing and Community
Development.

(i) “Political subdivision” means a county or municipal corporation of the State.

SUBTITLE ~~23.~~ 11. BUSINESS FACADE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.

~~5–2301.~~ 6–1101.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “PROGRAM” BUSINESS FACADE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.MEANS THE

(C) “QUALIFIED BUSINESS” THAT:MEANS A BUSINESS

(1) COMMUNITY;IS LOCATED IN A SUSTAINABLE AND

(2) PLANS TO IMPROVE THE OUTSIDE APPEARANCE OF THE
BUSINESS’S FACILITY.BUILDING OR

(D) “SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY” MEANS AN AREA DESIGNATED AS A
§ 6–205 ~~HOUSING~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY UNDER OF ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~
~~DEVELOPMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE~~ TITLE.THIS

~~5–2302.~~ 6–1102.

(A) THERE BUSINESS FACADE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMIS A IN THE
DEPARTMENT.

(B) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO ASSIST QUALIFIED BUSINESSES
BUSINESSES’WITH IMPROVING THE OUTSIDE APPEARANCE OF THE BUILDINGS AND
FACILITIES.

(C) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL DISTRIBUTE FUNDS FROM THE
PROGRAM THAT:TO ~~COUNTIES~~ POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS

(I) COMMUNITY;HAVE AT LEAST ONE SUSTAINABLE AND

(II) FUNDS.APPLY FOR THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 437

(2) THE DEPARTMENT DEVELOP:SHALL

(I) AN APPLICATION PROCESS FOR ~~COUNTIES~~ POLITICAL
PROGRAM;SUBDIVISIONS SEEKING TO PARTICIPATE IN THE AND

(II) FOR:CRITERIA

1. RATING ~~COUNTIES~~ POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS THAT
FUNDS;APPLY FOR AND

2. AWARDING FUNDS TO ~~COUNTIES~~ POLITICAL
SUBDIVISIONS.

(D) (1) EACH ~~COUNTY~~ POLITICAL SUBDIVISION THAT RECEIVES FUNDS
(C)UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION SHALL DISTRIBUTE GRANTS TO
GRANT.QUALIFIED BUSINESSES THAT APPLY FOR A

(2) EACH DEVELOP:~~COUNTY~~ POLITICAL SUBDIVISION SHALL

(I) A GRANT APPLICATION PROCESS FOR QUALIFIED
PROGRAM;BUSINESSES SEEKING TO PARTICIPATE IN THE AND

(II) FOR:CRITERIA

1. RATING QUALIFIED BUSINESSES THAT APPLY FOR
GRANTS; AND

2. BUSINESSES.AWARDING GRANTS TO QUALIFIED

(E) FOR 2025 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR THE
GOVERNOR SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF
$5,000,000 PROGRAM.TO THE

~~5–2303.~~ 6–1103.

THE DEPARTMENT SUBTITLE.MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 3 –