PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 705

Chapter 705

(House Bill 759)

AN ACT concerning

Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention, Youth, and Victim Services – Sexual
Assault Evidence Collection Kit Reporting Program

FOR the purpose of requiring the Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention, Youth, and Victim
Services to establish and administer a certain reporting program relating to sexual
assault evidence collection kits; requiring a law enforcement agency and a person
with control or possession of a sexual assault evidence collection kit to report certain
information to the program and comply with certain regulations; clarifying the uses
for the Rape Kit Testing Grant Fund; and generally relating to a sexual assault
evidence collection kit reporting program.

BY adding to
Article – Criminal Procedure
Section 11–926.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 4–401
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Criminal Procedure

11–926.1.

(A) (1) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH,OF AND
VICTIM SERVICES SHALL ESTABLISH AND ADMINISTER A REPORTING PROGRAM FOR
LOCATION, STATUS,TRACKING THE AND CHAIN OF CUSTODY FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT
KITS.EVIDENCE COLLECTION

(2) THE SHALL:REPORTING PROGRAM

(I) LOCATION, STATUS,TRACK THE AND CHAIN OF CUSTODY OF
STATE;SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KITS IN THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 705 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) LOCATION,RECEIVE INFORMATION RELATING TO THE
STATUS, AND CHAIN OF CUSTODY FROM ANY LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY OR
PERSON WITH CONTROL OR POSSESSION OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE
KIT;COLLECTION AND

(III) VICTIM’SALLOW FOR A VICTIM OR A REPRESENTATIVE TO
LOCATION, STATUS,TRACK THE AND CHAIN OF CUSTODY OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT
VICTIM.EVIDENCE COLLECTION KIT CONTAINING SAMPLES TAKEN FROM THE

(3) (I) INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE REPORTING SYSTEM IS
INSPECTION.NOT OPEN TO PUBLIC

(II) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION,OF
YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICESAND MAY DISCLOSE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE
TO:REPORTING SYSTEM ONLY

1. THE VICTIM ABOUT WHOM THE INFORMATION
PERTAINS;

2. VICTIM’SA REPRESENTATIVE FOR THE VICTIM ABOUT
PERTAINS;WHOM THE INFORMATION

3. A SEXUAL ASSAULT CRISIS PROGRAM ESTABLISHED
§ 11–923 SUBTITLE;UNDER OF THIS

4. §A CHILD ADVOCACY CENTER ESTABLISHED UNDER
11–928 SUBTITLE;OF THIS

5. AGENCY;A LAW ENFORCEMENT

6. STATE’S ATTORNEY;A

7. GOVERNOR’S OFFICEA PERSON AUTHORIZED BY THE
CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICESOF AND TO RECEIVE THE
INFORMATION; OR

8. A PERSON ENTITLED TO RECEIVE THE INFORMATION
STATE LAW, SUBPOENA, RULE, ORDER.BY FEDERAL OR COURT OR COURT

(B) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS BEGINNING
OCTOBER 1, 2023, PERSON,A LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY OR ANY INCLUDING A
PROVIDER, LABORATORY, STATE’S ATTORNEY,HEALTH CARE FORENSIC OR THAT

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 705

HAS CONTROL OR POSSESSION OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KIT
SHALL:

(I) LOCATION, STATUS,REPORT AND CHAIN OF CUSTODY
INFORMATION TO THE REPORTING PROGRAM ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS SECTION
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION,IN A MANNER REQUIRED BY THE OF
YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICES;AND AND

(II) COMPLY WITH ALL REGULATIONS DEVELOPED BY THE
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICESOF AND
SECTION.UNDER THIS

(2) A PERSON,LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY OR A INCLUDING A
PROVIDER, LABORATORY, STATE’S ATTORNEY,HEALTH CARE FORENSIC OR THAT
HAD CONTROL OR POSSESSION OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KIT
OCTOBER 1, 2023,BEFORE AND HAS CONTROL OR POSSESSION OF THE SEXUAL
OCTOBER 1, 2023,ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KIT ON OR AFTER SHALL
LOCATION, STATUS,REPORT AND CHAIN OF CUSTODY INFORMATION TO THE
REPORTING PROGRAM ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS SECTION ON OR BEFORE
DECEMBER 31, 2025.

(C) (1) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH,OF AND
VICTIM SERVICES, MARYLAND SEXUAL ASSAULTIN CONSULTATION WITH THE
EVIDENCE KIT POLICY FUNDING COMMITTEE,AND SHALL ADOPT ANY
SECTION.REGULATIONS NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THIS

(2) REGULATIONS GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIMEADOPTED BY THE OF
PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICESAND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SECTION
INCLUDE:SHALL

(I) REQUIREMENTS FOR REPORTING THE LOCATION AND
CHAIN OF CUSTODY OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KIT TO THE
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION,PROGRAM ESTABLISHED BY THE OF
YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICES SECTION;AND UNDER THIS AND

(II) PROCEDURES FOR DISCLOSING INFORMATION ABOUT
SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KITS INCLUDED IN THE REPORTING
PROGRAM, INCLUDING DISCLOSURE TO PARTIES AUTHORIZED TO RECEIVE
SYSTEM.INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE REPORTING

Article – Public Safety

4–401.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 705 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Forensic laboratory” means a facility, an entity, or a site that offers or
performs forensic analysis and is owned or operated by the State, a county or municipal
corporation in the State, or another governmental entity.

(3) “Fund” means the Rape Kit Testing Grant Fund.

(4) “Law enforcement agency” means the Department of State Police or a
police department of a county or municipal corporation in the State.

(b) There is a Rape Kit Testing Grant Fund.

(c) The purpose of the Fund is to provide law enforcement agencies with funding
to pay for testing of sexual assault evidence collection kits by forensic laboratories.

(d) The Executive Director of the Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention, Youth,
and Victim Services shall:

(1) administer the Fund;

(2) establish and publish procedures for the distribution of funding to law
enforcement agencies;

(3) ensure each jurisdiction in the State that has a forensic laboratory is
able to access the Fund;

(4) consider the number of sexual assault incidents that were investigated
by a law enforcement agency in the prior fiscal year when distributing funding; and

(5) submit a report with information on the distribution of funding to the
General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, before
September 1 each year.

(e) (1) The Fund is a special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to § 7–302 of
the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(2) The State Treasurer shall hold the Fund separately, and the
Comptroller shall account for the Fund.

(f) The Fund consists of:

(1) money appropriated in the State budget to the Fund;

(2) any interest earnings of the Fund; and

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 705

(3) any other money from any other source accepted for the benefit of the
Fund.

(1)(g) The Fund may be used only for equipment, supplies, personnel, and
outsourcing necessary for the testing of sexual assault evidence collection kits in forensic
laboratories.

(2) SUBJECT (1) SUBSECTION, FUNDTO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
EQUIPMENT, SUPPLIES, PERSONNEL,MAY BE USED FOR AND OUTSOURCING
NECESSARY FOR THE TESTING OF SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KITS
FUND.COLLECTED BEFORE OR AFTER THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE

(h) (1) The State Treasurer shall invest the money of the Fund in the same
manner as other State money may be invested.

(2) Any interest earnings of the Fund, including interest earnings under
subsection (f) of this section, shall be credited to the Fund.

(i) Expenditures from the Fund may be made only in accordance with the State
budget.

(j) Money expended from the Fund for testing of sexual assault evidence
collection kits is supplemental to and is not intended to take the place of funding that
otherwise would be appropriated for testing of sexual assault evidence collection kits.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 5 –