PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 753

Chapter 753

(House Bill 751)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Officer and Community Wellness Training Grant Fund

FOR the purpose of establishing the Officer and Community Wellness Training Grant
Fund; ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor~~ ~~to~~ ~~include~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~annual~~ ~~budget~~ ~~bill~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~
~~appropriation~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Fund~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~grant~~ ~~assistance~~ ~~to~~ ~~local~~ ~~law~~ ~~enforcement~~
~~agencies;~~ requiring the Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention, Youth, and Victim
Services to administer the Fund and report to the Governor and the General
Assembly annually on the uses of the Fund; and generally relating to the Officer and
Community Wellness Training Grant Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Public Safety
Section 4–1012
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

4–1012.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR” EXECUTIVE DIRECTORMEANS THE OF
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICES.THE OF AND

(3) “FUND” OFFICER COMMUNITY WELLNESSMEANS THE AND
TRAINING GRANT FUND.

(4) “LOCAL AGENCY”LAW ENFORCEMENT MEANS ~~A~~ ~~POLICE~~
FORCE,~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPALITY~~ A GOVERNMENTAL POLICE
SHERIFF’S OFFICE, OR SECURITY FORCE OR LAW ENFORCEMENT ORGANIZATION OF
STATE STATETHE OR A COUNTY OR A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE THAT BY
STATUTE, ORDINANCE, OR COMMON LAW IS AUTHORIZED TO ENFORCE THE
STATE.GENERAL CRIMINAL LAWS OF THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 753 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) THERE OFFICER COMMUNITY WELLNESS TRAINING GRANTIS AN AND
FUND.

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE GRANTS TO LOCAL LAW
FOR:ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES

(1) MENTAL HEALTH FIRST AID PUBLIC SAFETY TRAINING;FOR AND

(2) CRITICAL INCIDENT STRESS MANAGEMENT PEER SUPPORT
TRAINING.

(D) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH,OF AND
VICTIM SERVICES FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) FOR 2025 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR THE
GOVERNOR ~~SHALL~~ MAY INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION
~~$1,000,000~~ FUND.~~OF~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ FOR THE

(F) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE AND

(2) MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR THE BENEFIT
FUND.OF THE

(G) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL HOLD THE SEPARATELY
COMPTROLLER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR,AND THE IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE
FUND.SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(H) MONEY FUNDDISBURSED FROM THE SHALL BE USED SOLELY TO
SUPPLEMENT, SUPPLANT,AND NOT FUNDS OTHERWISE AVAILABLE TO LOCAL LAW
AGENCIES.ENFORCEMENT

(I) WITHIN 90 CYCLE,DAYS AFTER THE END OF A GRANT AN ELIGIBLE
LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY THAT RECEIVED A GRANT UNDER THIS SECTION
SUBMIT, YEAR, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORSHALL FOR THE FISCAL TO THE THE
FOLLOWING:

(1) PROOF OF THE EXPENDITURE OF THE GRANT FUNDS AND THE
EXPENDED;PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE FUNDS WERE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 753

(2) THE TOTAL NUMBER OF GRANTS AWARDED AND AMOUNT PER
OFFICER;POLICE

(3) THE TOTAL NUMBER OF GRANTS AWARDED SEPARATED BY
PROGRAM;TRAINING AND

(4) OUTCOME–BASEDANY RELATED PERFORMANCE MEASURES AS
§ 4–1009 SUBTITLE.REQUIRED BY OF THIS

(J) ON DECEMBER 31, 2023,OR BEFORE AND ON OR BEFORE EACH
DECEMBER 31 THEREAFTER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORTHE SHALL REPORT TO THE
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTIN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYTHE ON THE INFORMATION REQUIRED BY THIS
SECTION.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 3 –