PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 7

Chapter 7

(House Bill 774)

AN ACT concerning

Assisted Living Programs – Unlicensed Programs – Resident Abuse,
Exploitation, and Neglect
(The Senator Delores Kelley Residents of Unlicensed Programs Protection Act)

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Health, or ~~a~~ ~~designee~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~
~~Department~~ the Office of Health Care Quality, to investigate whether residents in
an assisted living program have been subject to neglect, exploitation, or ~~physical~~
abuse if the assisted living program is operating without a license; subjecting certain
assisted living programs operating without a license to immediate prosecution under
a certain provision of law under certain circumstances; altering the factors that the
State is required to consider when recommending the amount of penalty for violating
a certain prohibition against operating an assisted living program without a license;
authorizing certain State entities and local health officers to petition for injunctive
relief against the operation of an assisted living program operating without a license;
and generally relating to assisted living programs operating without a license.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 19–1809
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

19–1809.

(a) (1) A person may not knowingly and willfully operate, maintain, or own an
assisted living program without a license.

(2) A person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection is guilty of a
felony and on conviction is subject to:

(i) For a first offense, a fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment
not exceeding 5 years or both; or

(ii) For a subsequent offense, a fine not exceeding $20,000 or
imprisonment not exceeding 5 years or both.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 7 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) If the Department finds an assistedA CREDIBLE ALLEGATION THAT
living program ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~in~~ ~~violation~~ ~~of~~ ~~paragraph~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subsection~~ IS OPERATING
[shallLICENSE, the Department send written notice to the program 30 daysWITHOUT A
before the State files charges under this section in order to give the program an opportunity
requirements], ~~DEPARTMENT’S~~to come into compliance with licensure OR THE
OFFICE HEALTH CARE QUALITY,~~DESIGNEE~~ OF SHALL INVESTIGATE WHETHER
RESIDENTS IN THE ASSISTED LIVING PROGRAM HAVE BEEN SUBJECTED TO
NEGLECT, EXPLOITATION, ABUSE.OR ~~PHYSICAL~~

(4) (I) ON ALLEGATION,RECEIPT OF A CREDIBLE OR AFTER AN
INVESTIGATION THAT RESULTS IN A FINDING THAT RESIDENTS IN AN UNLICENSED
NEGLECT, EXPLOITATION,ASSISTED LIVING PROGRAM HAVE BEEN SUBJECTED TO
ABUSE,OR ~~PHYSICAL~~ THE PERSON OPERATING THE UNLICENSED PROGRAM SHALL
(2)BE SUBJECT TO IMMEDIATE PROSECUTION UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION.

(II) IF THE PERSON OPERATING AN UNLICENSED ASSISTED
LIVING PROGRAM FAILS OR REFUSES TO COOPERATE FULLY IN AN INVESTIGATION
DEPARTMENT, ~~DEPARTMENT’S~~ OFFICE HEALTHBY THE OR THE ~~DESIGNEE~~ OF
CARE QUALITY, (3) SUBSECTION,CONDUCTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
PERSON OPERATING THE UNLICENSED ASSISTED LIVING PROGRAM SHALL BE
(2)SUBJECT TO IMMEDIATE PROSECUTION UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION.

(5) IF DEPARTMENT FINDS,THE AFTER AN INVESTIGATION
(3) SUBSECTION,CONDUCTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS THAT THERE IS NO
REASON TO BELIEVE THAT RESIDENTS IN THE ASSISTED LIVING PROGRAM
OPERATING WITHOUT A LICENSE HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO ~~FINANCIAL~~
EXPLOITATION, NEGLECT, ABUSE:OR ~~PHYSICAL~~

(I) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROVIDE WRITTEN NOTICE TO
THE UNLICENSED ASSISTED LIVING PROGRAM THAT THE PROGRAM SHALL COME
30INTO COMPLIANCE WITH LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS WITHIN DAYS AFTER
NOTIFICATION;RECEIPT OF THE WRITTEN AND

[(4)] (II) [A] THE person may not be subjectOPERATING THE PROGRAM
to paragraph (2) of this subsection if the person has:PROSECUTION UNDER

[(i)] 1. [Applied] PROMPTLY in good faithAND SUBMITTED A
to the Department for an assisted living program license;COMPLETE APPLICATION

[(ii)] 2. Is awaiting a decision from the Department regarding the
application; and

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 7

[(iii)] 3. Has not been denied an assisted living program license on
a prior occasion.

[(5)] (6) In recommending the amount of the criminal penalty under
paragraph (2) of this subsection, the State shall consider factors including the nature,
[andnumber, and seriousness of the violations the ability of the assisted living program to
penalty].pay the

(7) THE DEPARTMENT, ATTORNEY GENERAL, STATE’STHE A
ATTORNEY, OR A LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER MAY PETITION A CIRCUIT COURT FOR
INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AGAINST THE OPERATION OF AN ASSISTED LIVING PROGRAM
LICENSE.OPERATING WITHOUT A

[(6)] (8) A violation of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be a violation
of the Consumer Protection Act.

(b) (1) (i) A person may not advertise, represent, or imply to the public that
an assisted living program is authorized to provide a service that the program is not
licensed, certified, or otherwise authorized by the Department to provide when the license,
certificate, or authorization is required under this subtitle.

(ii) A person may not advertise an assisted living program in a
misleading or fraudulent manner.

(2) (i) A person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection is subject
to a civil money penalty imposed by the Secretary not exceeding $10,000 for each offense.

(ii) In setting the amount of a civil money penalty on the program
under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, the Secretary shall consider factors including the
nature, number, and seriousness of the violations and the ability of the assisted living
program to pay the penalty.

(c) (1) A person may not willfully and knowingly refer another person to an
assisted living program that is operating without a license.

(2) A person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection is subject to the
following civil penalties:

(i) For a first offense, a civil penalty not exceeding $1,000;

(ii) For a second offense, a civil penalty not exceeding $2,000; or

(iii) For a third or subsequent offense, a civil penalty not exceeding
$3,000.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 7 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) The Secretary shall remit all civil penalties collected under this
subsection to the Office of Health Care Quality for the purposes of carrying out the
provisions of § 19–1813 of this subsection.

(D) THE DEPARTMENT MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS
SECTION.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 4 –