PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 462

Chapter 462

(House Bill 781)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Technology Development Corporation – Equitech Growth Fund and
Commission

FOR the purpose of establishing the Equitech Growth Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund
in the Maryland Technology Development Corporation; requiring interest earnings
of the Fund to be credited to the Fund; establishing the Equitech Growth
Commission to create a strategic plan and long–term goals for growing the State’s
innovation economy; and generally relating to the Equitech Growth Fund and
Commission.

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 10–488
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

10–488.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 462 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “COMMISSION” EQUITECH GROWTH COMMISSION.MEANS THE

(3) “FUND” EQUITECH GROWTH FUND.MEANS THE

(B) (1) THERE EQUITECH GROWTH FUND CORPORATION.IS AN IN THE

(2) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO SUPPORT THE ECONOMIC
COMPETITIVENESS AND INCLUSIVE GROWTH OF EMERGING AND ADVANCED
STATEINDUSTRIES IN THE THROUGH THE CREATION OF SUPPORTING
ASSETS, RESOURCES,INFRASTRUCTURE AND DIVERSE WORKFORCE THAT BUILDS
STATE’S ECONOMY.THE STRENGTHS OF THE

(3) THE CORPORATION FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(4) (I) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(II) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL HOLD THE
SEPARATELY, COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(5) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(I) STATEMONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE
FUND;

(II) FUND;INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE AND

(III) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED
FUND.FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE

(6) THE FUND SHALL LEVERAGE INVESTMENT FROM THE PRIVATE
SECTOR, SOURCES, FUNDING.FUNDING FROM FEDERAL AND OTHER SOURCES OF

(C) (1) THE CORPORATION GRANTS, INVESTMENTS,SHALL AWARD
LOANS, FUND PUBLIC,OR OTHER FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE TO
NONPROFIT, STATE,OR PRIVATE ENTITIES IN THE INCLUDING INSTITUTIONS OF
PUBLIC–PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.HIGHER EDUCATION AND

(2) AWARDS FUND TARGET:FROM THE SHALL

(I) DEVELOPMENT;WORKFORCE AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 462

(II) INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WILL ATTRACT AND RETAIN
STATE.BUSINESSES IN THE

(3) AWARDS 10–YEARSHALL BE CONSISTENT WITH THE GOALS IN
COMMISSION.THE STRATEGIC PLAN DEVELOPED BY THE

(D) (1) ~~(I)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2024,~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~
~~$15,000,000~~~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AWARDS~~
~~SECTION.~~~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(II)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2025,~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~
~~$30,000,000~~~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AWARDS~~
~~SECTION.~~~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(III)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2026,~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~
~~$55,000,000~~~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AWARDS~~
~~SECTION.~~~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2027,~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~
~~$75,000,000~~~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AWARDS~~
~~SECTION.~~~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(V)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2028,~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~
~~$75,000,000~~~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AWARDS~~
~~SECTION.~~~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(VI)~~ FOR ~~2029~~ 2025 2033,EACH OF FISCAL YEARS THROUGH
GOVERNORTHE ~~MAY~~ SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL ~~A~~ ~~TOTAL~~ AN
~~$250,000,000~~ $5,000,000 SECTION.APPROPRIATION OF FOR AWARDS UNDER THIS

(2) MONEY APPROPRIATED UNDER THIS SECTION THAT IS NOT USED
FUND.BY THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR SHALL BE DEPOSITED IN THE

(E) THE CORPORATION ESTABLISH:SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO

(1) PROCESS;A COMPETITIVE APPLICATION

(2) AWARDS,REVIEW CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR MAKING
AWARDS;INCLUDING PRIVATE LEVERAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR

(3) PROCESSES AND METRICS FOR MONITORING EACH PROJECT AND
SUCCESS, IMPACT, STATE’STHE ECONOMIC AND IMPACT OF THE AWARD ON THE
DIVERSITY, EQUITY, STATE’S ECONOMY;AND INCLUSION IN THE INNOVATION AND
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 462 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) PROCESSES FOR ENSURING THAT THE PROGRAMMATIC FUNDS
STATE.AND LEVERAGED FUNDS ARE INVESTED WITHIN THE

(F) ON JULY 1 YEAR, 2024,OR BEFORE EACH BEGINNING IN THE
CORPORATION GOVERNOR AND, §SHALL REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, PRESIDENT SENATEOF THE THE OF THE
SPEAKER HOUSE FUND.AND THE OF THE ON AWARDS MADE FROM THE

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair Fund; AND

172. EQUITECH GROWTH FUND.THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Commission” means the Equitech Growth Commission.

(3) “HBCU” means the following historically Black colleges and
universities:

(i) Bowie State University;

(ii) Coppin State University;

(iii) Morgan State University; and

(iv) University of Maryland Eastern Shore.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 462

(b) There is an Equitech Growth Commission.

(c) The Commission consists of the following members:

(1) the Chief Executive Officer of the Maryland Technology Development
Corporation, or the Chief Executive Officer’s designee;

(2) the Executive Director of the Maryland Economic Development
Corporation, or the Executive Director’s designee;

(3) the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary’s designee;

(4) the Secretary of Labor, or the Secretary’s designee;

(5) the State Superintendent of Schools, or the Superintendent’s designee:

(6) the President of Johns Hopkins University; or the President’s designee;

(7) the Chancellor of the University System of Maryland, or the
Chancellor’s designee;

(8) the Chair of the Maryland Life Sciences Advisory Board, or the Chair’s
designee;

(9) the following members appointed by the Governor:

(i) the president of an HBCU, or the president’s designee;

(ii) the president of a community college in the State, or the
president’s designee; ~~and~~

(iii) a representative of the Maryland Association of Counties;

(iv) a representative of the Maryland Tech Council; and

~~(iii)~~ (v) six members of the business community, of which at least:

1. three shall be women;

2. three shall be minorities;

3. two shall reside in a rural area; and

4. two shall have executive experience in an advanced
technology industry;

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 462 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(10) three members of the business community appointed by the President
of the Senate, of which at least:

(i) two shall be women;

(ii) one shall be a minority;

(iii) one shall reside in a rural area; and

(iv) one shall have executive experience in an advanced technology
industry; and

(11) three members appointed by the Speaker of the House, of which at
least:

(i) two shall be women;

(ii) one shall be a minority;

(iii) one shall reside in a rural area; and

(iv) one shall have executive experience in an advanced technology
industry.

(d) The Maryland Technology Development Corporation shall staff the
Commission.

(e) (1) On or before July 1, 2025, the Commission shall develop an inclusive,
comprehensive, long–term strategic plan and 10–year goals for growing the State’s
innovation economy to be highly competitive with other states and regions relative to
growing, attracting, and retaining a skilled workforce and high–growth businesses.

(2) The Commission shall develop a strategic plan, driven through
public–private collaboration, on strategies to ensure the State meets the 10–year goals
developed by the Commission.

(3) The strategic plan shall include mechanisms to increase the
participation of communities in the innovation economy, to create pathways for
high–paying jobs, and to increase and to expand wealth in minority communities.

(4) On or before July 1, 2025, the Commission shall report the
Commission’s strategic plan to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
Government Article, the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 462

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023. Section 2 of this Act shall remain effective for a period of 2 years and, at the end of
June 30, 2025, Section 2 of this Act, with no further action required by the General
Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 7 –