PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 470

Chapter 470

(House Bill 768)

AN ACT concerning

Economic Development – Western Maryland Economic Future Investment
Board and Senator George C. Edwards Fund – Alterations

FOR the purpose of ~~renaming~~ altering the composition of the Western Maryland Economic
Future Investment Board ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~the~~ ~~Western~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Economic~~ ~~Future~~ ~~Investment~~
~~Vetting~~ ~~Board;~~ ~~establishing~~ ~~and~~ ~~specifying~~ ~~the~~ ~~purpose~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Western~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~Economic~~ ~~Future~~ ~~Investment~~ ~~Voting~~ ~~Board;~~ establishing an Executive Director for
the ~~Vetting~~ Board ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~Voting~~ ~~Board;~~ altering the manner in which decisions are
made regarding certain proposals for funding; and generally relating to the Western
Maryland Economic Future Investment Boards and the Senator George C. Edwards
Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 13–701(a), (c), ~~and~~ ~~(e)~~ (e), and (g)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 13–736 through 13–741
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 13–738 ~~and~~ ~~13–739~~
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

13–701.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(c) “Council” means the Tri–County Council for Western Maryland.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 470 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(e) “Member county” means each county in the region that pays annual dues that
the Council sets.

(g) “Region” means Allegany, Garrett, and Washington counties.

13–736.

(a) In this part the following words have the meanings indicated.

~~[(b)~~ “Board” means the Western Maryland Economic Future Investment Board
~~subtitle.]~~established under § 13–737 of this

~~(B)~~ (C) “EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR” EXECUTIVE DIRECTORMEANS THE OF
~~VETTING~~ BOARD ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD.~~THE ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~

(D)~~(c)~~ “Fund” means the Senator George C. Edwards Fund established under
[§ 13–738] ~~§~~ ~~13–740~~ § 13–739 of this subtitle.

~~(D)~~ ~~“VETTING~~ ~~BOARD”~~ ~~WESTERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~ECONOMIC~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~
~~FUTURE~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~VETTING~~ ~~BOARD~~ ~~§~~ ~~13–737~~~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~

~~(E)~~ ~~“VOTING~~ ~~BOARD”~~ ~~WESTERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~ECONOMIC~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~
~~FUTURE~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD~~ ~~§~~ ~~13–738~~~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~

13–737.

~~VETTING~~(a) There is a Western Maryland Economic Future Investment Board.

~~VETTING~~(b) The Board consists of the following members:

(1) one representative from the Department of Commerce, appointed by the
Commerce,Secretary of MEMBER;WHO SHALL SERVE AS A NONVOTING

~~(2)~~ ~~one~~ ~~commissioner~~ ~~from~~ ~~each~~ ~~member~~ ~~county,~~ ~~appointed~~ ~~by~~ ~~each~~
~~member~~ ~~county’s~~ ~~respective~~ ~~commissioners;~~

(2)~~(3)~~ one representative of an economic development organization in
commissioners,each member county, appointed by each member county’s respective WHO
MEMBER;SHALL SERVE AS A NONVOTING

(3) [chamber~~(4)~~ one representative from ~~the~~ of commerce from each
commerce]member county, appointed by each member county’s respective chamber of

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 470

DISTRICT 1, SPEAKER HOUSE,~~PRIVATE~~ ~~SECTOR~~ ~~IN~~ APPOINTED BY THE OF THE IN
DISTRICT 1 MARYLAND GENERALCONSULTATION WITH THE DELEGATION TO THE
ASSEMBLY; ~~and~~

(4) [Maryland~~(5)~~ one representative from ~~the~~ Municipal League,
League] DISTRICT 2,appointed by the Executive Director of the ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~SECTOR~~ ~~IN~~
PRESIDENT SENATE,APPOINTED BY THE OF THE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
DISTRICT 2 MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY;DELEGATION TO THE

(5) COUNTY;ONE COUNTY COMMISSIONER FROM EACH MEMBER

(6) DISTRICT 1,ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM APPOINTED BY THE
PRESIDENT SENATE, DISTRICT 1OF THE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE DELEGATION
MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY,TO THE WHO SHALL SERVE AS A NONVOTING
MEMBER;

(7) DISTRICT 2,ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM IN CONSULTATION
DISTRICT 2 MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY,WITH THE DELEGATION TO THE
SPEAKER HOUSE,APPOINTED BY THE OF THE WHO SHALL SERVE AS A NONVOTING
MEMBER;

(8) STATE SENATOR DISTRICT 1,THE REPRESENTING WHO SHALL
MEMBER;SERVE AS AN EX OFFICIO NONVOTING

(9) STATE SENATOR DISTRICT 2,THE REPRESENTING WHO SHALL
MEMBER;SERVE AS AN EX OFFICIO NONVOTING

(10) HOUSE DELEGATESA MEMBER OF THE OF REPRESENTING A
DISTRICT 1, SPEAKER HOUSE,SUBDISTRICT IN APPOINTED BY THE OF THE WHO
MEMBER;SHALL SERVE AS AN EX OFFICIO NONVOTING AND

(11) HOUSE DELEGATESA MEMBER OF THE OF REPRESENTING A
DISTRICT 2, SPEAKER HOUSE,SUBDISTRICT IN APPOINTED BY THE OF THE WHO
MEMBER.SHALL SERVE AS AN EX OFFICIO NONVOTING

[representative shall] ~~VETTING~~(c) The from the Department of Commerce
BOARD [the Board]chairVOTING MEMBERS OF THE MAY ELECT A FROM AMONG ~~ITS~~
BOARD’S MEMBERS.THE

~~VETTING~~(d) The Council shall provide staff for the Board.

~~VETTING~~(e) A member of the Board:

(1) may not receive compensation as a member of the Board; but
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 470 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) is entitled to reimbursement for expenses under the Standard State
Travel Regulations, as provided in the State budget.

~~13–738.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THERE~~ ~~WESTERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~ECONOMIC~~ ~~FUTURE~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~~~IS~~ ~~A~~
~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD.~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD~~ ~~MEMBERS:~~~~CONSISTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~

~~(1)~~ ~~COUNTY;~~~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~COMMISSIONER~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~VETTING~~ ~~BOARD~~~~THE~~ ~~TWO~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~ARE~~
~~SECTOR.~~~~REPRESENTATIVES~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRIVATE~~

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNCIL~~ ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD.~~~~MAY~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~STAFF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(D)~~ ~~A~~ ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD:~~~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~BOARD;~~~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~RECEIVE~~ ~~COMPENSATION~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~BUT~~

~~(2)~~ ~~IS~~ ~~ENTITLED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~REIMBURSEMENT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~EXPENSES~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~
~~STANDARD~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~TRAVEL~~ ~~REGULATIONS,~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~BUDGET.~~~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~(E)~~ (F) THE ~~VOTING~~ BOARDVOTING MEMBERS OF THE SHALL HAVE
ON:FINAL APPROVAL AUTHORITY

(1) FUND;DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE AND

(2) § ~~13–741~~ 13–740PROJECTS SELECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
SUBTITLE.THIS

~~13–739.~~ 13–738.

(A) THE ~~VETTING~~ BOARD ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD~~~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ SHALL ~~JOINTLY~~
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.APPOINT AN

(B) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE
~~VETTING~~ BOARD ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD.~~~~AND~~ ~~THE~~

(C) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORSALARY OF THE ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ MAY NOT EXCEED
$75,000.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 470

(D) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHALL MANAGE THE ADMINISTRATIVE
~~VETTING~~ BOARD ~~VOTING~~AFFAIRS AND TECHNICAL ACTIVITIES OF THE ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~
~~BOARD,~~ ~~VETTING~~ BOARDIN ACCORDANCE WITH POLICIES AND PROCEDURES THE
~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD~~ ESTABLISHES.~~AND~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~

(E) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ~~SHALL:~~

(1) FUND §~~ADMINISTER~~ MAY ASSIST IN ADMINISTERING THE UNDER
~~13–740~~ 13–739 SUBTITLE;OF THIS

(2) SHALL PRESENT THE PROJECTS SELECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
§ ~~13–741~~ 13–740 ~~VETTING~~OF THIS SUBTITLE AS ~~VETTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ DETERMINED BY
BOARD ~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD;~~THE VOTING MEMBERS OF THE ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ AND

(3) ~~VETTING~~ BOARDSHALL PERFORM ANY OTHER DUTIES THAT THE
~~VOTING~~ ~~BOARD~~ PART.~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DIRECT~~ DIRECTS IN CARRYING OUT THIS

[13–738.] ~~13–740.~~ 13–739.

(a) There is a Senator George C. Edwards Fund.

(b) The purpose of the Fund is to provide grant or loan funding to capital
infrastructure projects and business development projects that improve the economic
conditions in the region.

~~[Council]~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR~~(c) The shall administer the Fund.

(d) (1) The Fund consists of:

(i) appropriations as provided in the State budget;

(ii) interest or other income earned on the investment of money in
the Fund; and

(iii) any other money accepted for the benefit of the Fund.

(2) In each of fiscal years 2024 through 2026, the Governor shall include in
the annual operating or capital budget bill an appropriation of at least $10,000,000 to the
Fund.

(e) Money in the Fund may be used only to:

(1) award grants and provide loans to capital infrastructure projects and
business development projects to improve the economic conditions in the region; and

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 470 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Fund,(2) pay the costs necessary to administer the INCLUDING PAYING
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.THE SALARY OF THE

(f) (1) The Fund is a special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to reversion
under § 7–302 of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(2) The State Treasurer shall hold the Fund separately, and the
Comptroller shall account for the Fund.

(3) The State Treasurer shall invest the money in the Fund in the same
manner as other State money may be invested.

(4) Any investment earnings of the Fund shall be credited to the Fund.

[13–739.] ~~13–741.~~ 13–740.

(a) A member county or local entity within a member county may submit a
proposal for funding under this part.

(b) To qualify for funding, a project shall be:

(1) a capital infrastructure project that:

(i) is linked to economic development in the region, as approved by
~~VETTING~~the Board; and

(ii) receives 20% matching funds from the member county where the
project is located, another local entity, a private business, or a combination thereof;

(2) a business development project that:

(i) encourages and promotes downtown neighborhood
~~VETTING~~revitalization, small business tourism, or other areas as approved by the Board;
and

(ii) receives 10% matching funds from the member county where the
project is located, another local entity, a private business, or a combination thereof; or

~~VETTING~~(3) any other project that the Board determines is appropriate
to promote economic development in the region.

~~VETTING~~(c) (1) (i) The Board shall develop criteria to review, evaluate,
and rate project proposals for funding under this part.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 470

(ii) The criteria in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall ensure
that the project:

1. creates or retains jobs;

2. creates or retains businesses;

3. increases wages; or

4. creates new State or local tax revenue.

(I) THE ~~VOTING~~ BOARD(2) SHALL CHOOSE WHICH PROJECTS TO
AWARD GRANTS AND LOANS TO BASED ON THE CRITERIA DEVELOPED IN
(1) SUBSECTION.ACCORDANCE WITH PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(II) ~~VETTING~~ EXECUTIVE DIRECTORThe Board shallOR THE
[thedistribute grants and loans to projects based on criteria developed in accordance with
subsection] ~~VOTING~~ BOARDparagraph (1) of this THE DECISIONS MADE BY THE IN
(I) PARAGRAPH.ACCORDANCE WITH SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS

~~VETTING~~ EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR(d) (1) The Board shall monitorOR THE
and track the progress of each project that receives funding under this part.

~~VETTING~~(2) If the Board determines that sufficient progress is not being
~~VETTING~~made toward achieving the requirements of this section, the Board may reclaim
the awarded funds.

(e) The funding provided in this section shall be used to supplement and not
~~VETTING~~supplant any funds that would otherwise be provided to the Board or the member
counties.

[13–740.] ~~13–742.~~ 13–741.

~~VETTING~~(a) On or before December 31 each year, the Board shall report to the
Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, the General
Assembly on the implementation of this part.

(b) The report required in subsection (a) of this section shall include,
disaggregated by member county:

(1) the number of new projects funded during the previous year;

(2) the number of projects that were completed during the previous year;

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 470 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) the number of ongoing projects that were not completed during the
previous year;

(4) the amount and type of funding received by each project;

(5) the current status of each ongoing project; and

~~VETTING~~(6) any other relevant economic metrics determined by the
Board.

[13–741.] ~~13–743.~~ 13–742.

~~VETTING~~The Board shall adopt regulations to carry out this part.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ June 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 8 –