PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 216

Chapter 216

(House Bill 844)

AN ACT concerning

Housing and Community Development – Common Ownership Community
Website

FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Housing and Community Development to
establish and maintain a website that provides certain information on the rights and
responsibilities of individuals living in a common ownership community; and
generally relating to common ownership communities.

BY adding to
Article – Housing and Community Development
Section 2–303 to be under the amended subtitle “Subtitle 3. Miscellaneous
Requirements”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Housing and Community Development

[Reporting]Subtitle 3. Miscellaneous Requirements.

2–303.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “COMMON COMMUNITY” MEANS:OWNERSHIP

(I) CONDOMINIUM, § 11–101 REALA AS DEFINED IN OF THE
PROPERTY ARTICLE;

(II) CORPORATION, §A COOPERATIVE HOUSING AS DEFINED IN
5–6B–01 CORPORATIONS ASSOCIATIONS ARTICLE;OF THE AND OR

(III) ASSOCIATION, § 11B–101A HOMEOWNERS AS DEFINED IN
REAL PROPERTY ARTICLE.OF THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 216 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) “LOCAL PROGRAM”COMMON OWNERSHIP COMMUNITY MEANS A
PROGRAM OPERATED BY A LOCAL JURISDICTION FOR THE REGULATION OR
COMMUNITIES.OVERSIGHT OF COMMON OWNERSHIP

(B) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN A WEBSITE THAT
PROVIDES INFORMATION ON THE CURRENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF
COMMUNITY.INDIVIDUALS LIVING IN A COMMON OWNERSHIP

(C) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL MAKE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE ON THE
WEBSITE:

(1) A HYPERLINK TO THE WEBSITE OF EACH LOCAL COMMON
STATE;OWNERSHIP COMMUNITY PROGRAM IN THE AND

(2) INFORMATION ON STATEWIDE LEGISLATION ENACTED IN THE
PRIOR LEGISLATIVE SESSION REGARDING THE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF
COMMUNITY, INCLUDING,INDIVIDUALS LIVING IN A COMMON OWNERSHIP FOR
ENACTED:EACH BILL THAT IS

(I) TITLE;THE BILL

(II) NUMBER;THE BILL AND CHAPTER

(III) BILL;THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE AND

(IV) GENERALA HYPERLINK TO THE BILL INFORMATION ON THE
ASSEMBLY WEBSITE.

(D) THE (C)(2)INFORMATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
DEPARTMENT’SSECTION SHALL BE POSTED ON THE COMMON OWNERSHIP
JUNE 1 YEAR.COMMUNITY WEBSITE ON OR BEFORE EACH

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 2 –