PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 426

Chapter 426

(House Bill 887)

AN ACT concerning

St. Mary’s County – Metropolitan Commission – New Facilities

FOR the purpose of requiring the St. Mary’s County Metropolitan Commission to obtain
the approval from the St. Mary’s County Commissioners before submitting a certain
loan application under certain circumstances; requiring the Commission to cause
studies, plans, and estimates to be made for new facilities in certain portions of the
county; requiring the Commission to give certain notice of new facilities, make
available the plans of the new facilities, and hold a certain hearing on the proposed
new facilities under certain circumstances; requiring any excess revenue made by
the Commission in the sale or transfer of certain debt to be exempt from taxation;
authorizing the costs of certain changes related to the establishment of the
Commission’s water supply or sewerage systems or other works to be borne and paid
for in full or in part by the Commission, subject to a prior rights determination by
the Commission; and generally relating to establishing, expanding, or extending
water or sewerage systems in St. Mary’s County.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
The Public Local Laws of St. Mary’s County
Section 113–1, 113–3C., 113–5A., 113–6B., 113–7C., 113–11G., 113–17D., 113–19C.,
and 113–20
Article 19 – Public Local Laws of Maryland
(2007 Edition and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article 19 – St. Mary’s County

113–1.

For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:

A. Capital Contribution Charge. The term “capital contribution charge” shall
mean an amount based on capital costs that is imposed and collected on a new connection
to a water supply or sewerage system under this chapter.

B. Connection Charge. The term “connection charge” shall mean a capital
contribution charge or connection fee.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 426 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

C. Connection Fee. The term “connection fee” shall mean an amount based on the
cost of connection that is imposed on a new connection to a water supply or sewerage system
under this chapter.

D. County. The term “County” shall mean the Commissioners of St. Mary’s
County.

E. Dwelling. The term “dwelling” shall mean a principal residence of a
homeowner and includes the lot on which a house is situated.

F. EDU. The term “EDU” shall mean equivalent dwelling unit and shall equate
to the generally accepted average volume in gallons per day, of wastewater generated by
one (1) residential dwelling unit, as determined and allocated by the St. Mary’s County
Department of Land Use and Growth Management.

G. Facilities Plan. The term “facilities plan” shall mean a plan prepared
periodically by the Metropolitan Commission, in conjunction with the St. Mary’s County
Department of Land Use and Growth Management to evaluate, identify and prioritize
recommended capital improvements to public water and sewer systems in St. Mary’s
County, over a specified time period.

H. Homeowner. The term “homeowner” shall mean a person who resides in a
dwelling and has an ownership interest in the dwelling, including a life estate, joint
tenancy, tenancy in common, tenancy by the entirety, or fee simple interest.

I. Metropolitan Commission. The term “Metropolitan Commission” shall mean
the organization known as the St. Mary’s County Metropolitan Commission, to include the
staff of the Metropolitan Commission.

NEW FACILITY. THE “NEW FACILITY” “NEW FACILITIES”J. TERM OR
SHALL MEAN EACH WATER OR SEWERAGE SYSTEM THAT IS EITHER A NEW SYSTEM
SYSTEM,OR AN EXPANSION OR EXTENSION OF AN EXISTING WHICH PROVIDES NEW
WATER OR SEWERAGE SERVICE TO PROPERTIES NOT PREVIOUSLY SERVED BY
SEWER.PUBLIC WATER OR

K. Principal Residence. The term “principal residence” shall mean a house that
is occupied by a homeowner for more than six (6) months of a consecutive twelve–month
period, unless the reason for non–occupancy is the result of hospitalization or residency in
a long–term health care institution.

[K.] L. Publication. The term “publication” shall mean notice to all persons
having any interest in a property.

[L.] M. Ready–To–Serve Charge. The term “ready–to–serve charge” shall mean
the minimum charge for water service.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 426

[M.] N. Remote Area. The term “remote area” shall mean an area in which it is
economically not feasible to provide service at the uniform rate because of the distance of
the area from the principal facilities of the Metropolitan Commission.

[N.] O. Remote Area Charge. The term “remote area charge” shall mean an
additional service charge to meet the additional cost of providing service to a remote area
property.

[O.] P. [areaService Area. The term “service area” shall mean any of St. Mary’s
County identified as a growth area in the St. Mary’s County Comprehensive Land Use
Plan] ST. MARY’S COUNTY,WATER SERVICE AREA AND SEWERAGE SERVICE AREA IN
MARYLAND, ST. MARY’S COUNTYAS IDENTIFIED IN THE COMPREHENSIVE WATER
PLAN.AND SEWERAGE

[P.] Q. Service Charge. The term “service charge” shall mean those charges
and fees prescribed in this chapter which are assessed and collected to pay the operational
costs of the Metropolitan Commission.

[Q.] R. Special Service Area. The term “special service area” shall mean an
area to which the Metropolitan Commission has determined it to be economically infeasible
to extend or construct a public water or sewer system.

[R.] S. Special Service Area Fee. The term “special service area fee” shall mean
the fee assessed and collected by the Metropolitan Commission to offset the costs of
constructing a water or sewer system to serve a special service area.

[S.] T. Staff. The term “staff” shall mean any and all employees of the
Metropolitan Commission to include the Director and any such assistant director(s),
general counsel, department heads and supporting staff as shall be deemed necessary and
appropriate, from time to time, to fulfill the requirements of this chapter.

[T.] U. System Improvement Charge. The term “system improvement charge”
shall mean the monthly per EDU charge, collected by the Metropolitan Commission to pay
for the costs of capital projects for the comprehensive improvement or replacement of
existing water or sewerage systems and central treatment and processing facility
expansions and upgrades.

113–3.

[When] WITH REFUNDING, REFINANCING,C. THE EXCEPTION OF AND
SIMILAR TRANSACTIONS WHERE NO ADDITIONAL DEBT LIABILITY WOULD BE
INCURRED, [plans money,]the Metropolitan Commission to borrow any SHALL SUBMIT
the Commissioners of St. Mary’sFOR REVIEW TO AND OBTAIN THE APPROVAL FROM
[shall approve] [beforeCounty review and any loan application the MetropolitanOF

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 426 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

the] METROPOLITAN COMMISSIONCommission submits WHERE THE SEEKS TO INCUR
ST. MARY’S COUNTY, MARYLAND,DEBT ON THE FULL FAITH AND CREDIT OF PRIOR
loan application to a lender.TO THE SUBMISSION OF THE

113–5.

A. (1) The Metropolitan Commission shall cause studies, plans and estimates
[water systems]to be made for supply and sewerage in those portions ofNEW FACILITIES
St. Mary’s County in which the Metropolitan Commission determines that the facilities are
necessary and may divide each sanitary district into water and sewerage districts in such
a way as shall, in its judgment, best serve the needs of the various communities and shall
promote convenience and economy of installation and operation.

(2) (A) Whenever, and as, the studies and plans are completed, the
Metropolitan Commission shall give notice by publication in one (1) newspaper published
within St. Mary’s County for three (3) weeks.

(B) The Metropolitan Commission shall state in the notice the
[contemplated improvements]probable cost of the and shall further stateNEW FACILITIES
[improvements]in it that plans of the may be inspected at theNEW FACILITIES
[improvements]Metropolitan Commission’s Office and that any person interested in the
will be heard by the Metropolitan Commission at a time to be specifiedNEW FACILITIES
in the notice, but not less than ten (10) days after first publication of it.

(3) (A) If ten (10) residents and landowners in the sanitary district in
[improvements]which the are contemplated, within ten (10) days afterNEW FACILITIES
the last of the publications of the notice, file a petition with the Metropolitan Commission
[improvements]protesting against the proposed FACILITIES, the MetropolitanNEW
Commission shall grant them a hearing within fifteen (15) days after the petition is filed in
the office of the Metropolitan Commission and after not less than five (5) days’ notice of the
time and place of the hearing by advertisement published in one (1) newspaper published
within St. Mary’s County and by personal notices addressed to any one (1) or more persons
whose names are signed to the petition.

(B) After due hearing, the Metropolitan Commission shall decide
upon the reasonableness of the objections stated in the petition and shall dispose of them
by written order concurred in by a majority of the members of the Metropolitan Commission
Board. The order shall be published in the same manner as notices are required to be
published, and a copy of which shall be mailed to any one (1) or more of the petitioners.

(C) If the petitioners are not satisfied with the Metropolitan
Commission’s decision, they have the right to take and enter, within ten (10) days after the
last publication of the order, an appeal to the Commissioners of St. Mary’s County, who
shall review the Metropolitan Commission’s decision and decide on the necessity and

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 426

propriety of the improvements contemplated. The decision of the Commissioners of St.
Mary’s County is final.

113–6.

B. The principal amount of any Metropolitan Commission debt as permitted
hereunder, the interest payable thereon, and any income derived therefrom, including any
[profit] made by the Metropolitan Commission in the sale or transferEXCESS REVENUE
thereof, shall be and remain exempt from taxation by the State of Maryland and by the
several counties and municipal corporations of this State.

113–7.

C. Penalty. In order that the prompt payment of principal and interest on all
outstanding debt shall be assured, the prompt and proper performance of the respective
acts and duties heretofore defined is specifically enjoined, and any failure upon the part of
any person, persons, body corporate or agent to perform the necessary acts and duties
hereafter set forth to pay over the funds as required, or to use the funds for the payment of
the principal and interest on the outstanding debt, is hereby declared a misdemeanor and
[176] 113–21punishable as other misdemeanors are punishable by Section OF THIS
CHAPTER.

113–11.

G. Penalties. Any violation of any of the provisions of this section is a
[176] 113–21misdemeanor punishable under Section CHAPTER.OF THIS

113–17.

D. Any violation of this provision is a misdemeanor punishable under Section
[176] 113–21 CHAPTER.OF THIS

113–19.

C. Any restraint or hindrance offered to the entry, access, ingress or egress by
any owner or tenant of any affected property, or agent of the owner or tenant, or any other
[176] 113–21person is a misdemeanor punishable under Section CHAPTER.OF THIS

113–20.

A. All individuals, firms or corporations having buildings, conduits, pipes, tracks,
poles or other structures or obstructions in, on, over, under or through any public road,
street or alley of any sanitary district which blocks or impedes the construction and
establishment of the Metropolitan Commission’s water supply or sewerage systems or other
works shall, upon reasonable notice from the Metropolitan Commission, promptly so shift,

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 426 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

adjust, accommodate or remove the structures or obstructions as to fully meet the
exigencies occasioning the action.

[shall]B. The costs of such changes be borne and paid forMAY IN FULL OR IN
Commission,by the MetropolitanPART SUBJECT TO A PRIOR RIGHTS DETERMINATION
METROPOLITAN COMMISSION.BY THE

C. Every public service corporation, company or individual, before it or they shall
begin any excavation or construction in any street, road, alley or public highway within any
sanitary district, shall file with the Metropolitan Commission plans of such work and
construction showing the location and depth in such street, road, alley or public highway of
the proposed main, conduit, pole, pipe or other structure, and the construction or work may
not be begun until the plans have been approved by the Metropolitan Commission, nor shall
any change be made in the approved plans or in the work or construction as shown upon
the plans except on further approval of the Metropolitan Commission.

D. Whenever any main, conduit, pole, pipe or other structure is put in without
the filing of plans with the Metropolitan Commission and the approval thereof by it, or
when any change is made in the location of such main, conduit, pipe, pole or other structure
as shown upon the plans approved by the Metropolitan Commission, or any approved
change therein, the Metropolitan Commission, if and when such conduit, main, pipe or pole,
or other structure interferes with the construction of or operation of its water or sewerage
system or other works, may remove such conduit, main, pipe, pole or other structures or
change the location thereof at the cost and expense of the party so putting them in, or their
heirs, assigns or successors, and without any liability upon the part of the Metropolitan
Commission for damage that might be done to same by reason of the Metropolitan
Commission’s operations in constructing or maintaining its systems or works.

E. Any violation of the provisions of this section is a misdemeanor punishable
[176] 113–21under Section CHAPTER.OF THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 6 –