PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 569

Chapter 569

(House Bill 834)

AN ACT concerning

Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure – Requirements
(Electric Vehicle Charging Reliability Act)

FOR the purpose of requiring the Public Service Commission to expand the EV Pilot
Program to allow participating electric companies to install EV charging stations in
multifamily dwellings in underserved communities; requiring the Commission to
terminate the expansion of the EV Pilot Program on a certain date; requiring an
electric company operating an EV charging network to ensure the EV charging
stations in the EV charging network ~~have~~ maintain ~~a~~ certain ~~minimum~~ ~~annual~~
uptime standards, subject to certain exceptions; requiring an electric company
operating an EV charging network to be subject to certain reporting requirements;
requiring ~~the~~ ~~Commission~~ ~~to~~ ~~require~~ an electric company participating in the EV
Pilot Program to maintain an adequate number of staff to monitor, assess, and repair
certain EV charging stations; ~~requiring~~ ~~an~~ ~~electric~~ ~~company~~ ~~participating~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~EV~~
~~Pilot~~ ~~Program~~ ~~that~~ ~~fails~~ ~~to~~ ~~satisfy~~ ~~certain~~ ~~uptime~~ ~~requirements~~ ~~to~~ ~~file~~ ~~a~~ ~~corrective~~
~~action~~ ~~plan~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~Commission~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~before~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~date;~~ and generally relating
to electric vehicle charging infrastructure.

BY adding to
Article – Public Utilities
Section 7–901 through 7–905 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 9. Electric
Vehicle Charging Infrastructure”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Utilities

SUBTITLE 9. ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE.

7–901.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

~~(B)~~ ~~“DIRECT~~ ~~CHARGING”~~~~CURRENT~~ ~~FAST~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~A~~ ~~DIRECT~~ ~~CURRENT~~
~~50~~~~CHARGER~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~CAN~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~A~~ ~~MINIMUM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~KILOWATTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~POWER~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~
~~VEHICLE.~~~~ELECTRIC~~

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 569 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(C)~~ (B) “EV NETWORK” EVCHARGING MEANS THE TOTAL NUMBER OF
CHARGING STATIONS AN ELECTRIC COMPANY INSTALLS OR MAINTAINS FOR PUBLIC
USE.

~~(D)~~ (C) “EV STATION”CHARGING MEANS A CONNECTED POINT IN AN
INSTALLATION:ELECTRICAL WIRING

(1) AT WHICH CURRENT IS TAKEN TO CHARGE A BATTERY OR ANY
VEHICLE;OTHER ENERGY STORAGE DEVICE IN AN ELECTRIC AND

(2) LEVEL 2CAPABLE OF PROVIDING CHARGING ~~OR~~ ~~DIRECT~~
~~CHARGING.~~~~CURRENT~~ ~~FAST~~

~~(E)~~ (D) “EV PILOT PROGRAM” EV PILOT PROGRAMMEANS THE
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ORDER NO. 88997ESTABLISHED BY AND
COMMISSION.ADMINISTERED BY THE

~~(F)~~ (E) “LEVEL 2 CHARGING” MEANS THE ABILITY TO CHARGE A BATTERY
THAT:OR OTHER ENERGY STORAGE DEVICE IN AN ELECTRIC VEHICLE IN A MANNER

(1) IS CAPABLE OF USING AN ALTERNATING CURRENT ELECTRICAL
208 VOLTS;SERVICE WITH A MINIMUM OF AND

(2) STANDARDS.MEETS APPLICABLE INDUSTRY SAFETY

~~(G)~~ (F) “UNDERSERVED COMMUNITY” MEANS ANY CENSUS TRACT IN
WHICH, U.S. CENSUS BUREAU SURVEY:ACCORDING TO THE MOST RECENT

(1) 25% LOW–INCOME;AT LEAST OF THE RESIDENTS QUALIFY AS

(2) 50% NONWHITE;AT LEAST OF THE RESIDENTS IDENTIFY AS OR

(3) 15% ENGLISHAT LEAST OF THE RESIDENTS HAVE LIMITED
PROFICIENCY.

~~(H)~~ (G) “UPTIME” MEANS THE AVAILABILITY AND CONSISTENCY OF AN
EV EVCHARGING STATION IN AN CHARGING NETWORK TO SUCCESSFULLY
DESIGNED,DISPENSE ELECTRICITY AS MEASURED AS A PERCENTAGE OF BOTH
YEAR.HOURS AND DAYS OF A CALENDAR

7–902.

THIS THAT:SUBTITLE APPLIES TO AN ELECTRIC COMPANY

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 569

(1) EVINSTALLS OR MAINTAINS AN CHARGING STATION FOR PUBLIC
USE; OR

(2) EV PILOT PROGRAM.PARTICIPATES IN THE

7–903.

(A) ~~THE~~ SUBJECT (B) SECTION, COMMISSIONTO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
SHALL, BY ORDER OR REGULATION AND SUBJECT TO REASONABLE COST
INTEREST,:LIMITATIONS BALANCED WITH THE PUBLIC

(1) EV PILOT PROGRAMEXPAND THE TO ALLOW PARTICIPATING
EVELECTRIC COMPANIES TO INSTALL CHARGING STATIONS IN NEW AND EXISTING
COMMUNITIES;MULTIFAMILY DWELLINGS IN UNDERSERVED AND

(2) EV PILOT PROGRAMTERMINATE THE EXPANSION REQUIRED
(1) DECEMBER 31, 2025.UNDER ITEM OF THIS SECTION ON

(B) THE EV PILOT PROGRAMTERMINATION OF THE EXPANSION REQUIRED
(A) TO:UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED

(1) COMPANY’STERMINATE AN ELECTRIC AUTHORITY TO OPERATE
EV COMMISSIONCHARGING STATIONS UNDER A PROGRAM APPROVED BY THE ON OR
MARCH 1, 2023;BEFORE

(2) COMPANY’SLIMIT AN ELECTRIC EFFORTS TO OPERATE AND
EV EV PILOT PROGRAM;MAINTAIN CHARGING STATIONS INSTALLED UNDER THE OR

(3) INVESTOR–OWNEDIMPACT THE COST RECOVERY BY AN ELECTRIC
EVCOMPANY FOR THE LIFETIME OF AN CHARGING STATION INSTALLED UNDER THE
EV PILOT PROGRAM.

7–904.

(A) (1) ~~AN~~ EXCEPT (2)AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, EVAN ELECTRIC COMPANY OPERATING AN CHARGING NETWORK
~~EV~~ ~~EV~~SHALL ~~ENSURE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~CHARGING~~ ~~STATIONS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CHARGING~~ ~~NETWORK~~
~~97%~~~~HAVE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~AVERAGE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ MAINTAIN UPTIME ~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~GREATER~~ STANDARDS
EV WITH:FOR EACH CHARGING STATION IN ACCORDANCE

(I) NATIONAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTUREFEDERAL
REQUIREMENTS;STANDARDS AND OR

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 569 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) ALTERNATIVE UPTIME STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
COMMISSION.APPROVED BY THE

(2) THE (1)UPTIME REQUIREMENT UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
EVSUBSECTION DOES NOT INCLUDE ANY TIME IN WHICH AN CHARGING STATION IS
TO:UNAVAILABLE DUE

(I) MAJEURE, COMMISSION;FORCE AS DETERMINED BY THE
OR

(II) VANDALISM.

(B) AN EVELECTRIC COMPANY SHALL CALCULATE CHARGING STATION
12 MONTHS.UPTIME ON A QUARTERLY BASIS FOR THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING

(C) (1) AN EVELECTRIC COMPANY THAT OPERATES AN CHARGING
STATION FOR PUBLIC USE SHALL BE SUBJECT TO THE SAME REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS AS AN ELECTRIC COMPANY THAT RECEIVES FEDERAL FUNDING
INFRASTRUCTURE.RELATED TO ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING

(2) AN EVELECTRIC COMPANY THAT OPERATES AN CHARGING
EV EVNETWORK OR CHARGING STATION SHALL SUBMIT THE FOLLOWING
COMMISSION BASIS:CHARGING STATION DATA TO THE ON A QUARTERLY

(I) EV STATION;THE LOCATION OF THE CHARGING AND

(II) EV STATION:FOR EACH CHARGING

1. CHARGING SESSION START AND END TIMES ~~AND~~ ~~RATE~~
~~COMPLETION;~~~~OF~~ ~~SUCCESSFUL~~

2. ELECTRICITY,THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF IN
KILOWATT–HOURS, DISPENSED TO AN ELECTRIC VEHICLE FOR EACH CHARGING
SESSION;

3. ELECTRICITY, KILOWATTS,THE PEAK AMOUNT OF IN
SESSION;DISPENSED TO AN ELECTRIC VEHICLE FOR EACH CHARGING

4. 3 MONTHS;UPTIME FOR EACH OF THE PREVIOUS

5. THE COST OF ELECTRICITY NEEDED TO OPERATE
EV 3 MONTHS;EACH CHARGING STATION FOR EACH OF THE PREVIOUS

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 569

6. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR COSTS FOR EACH OF THE
3 MONTHS;PREVIOUS

7. THE COST OF ACQUIRING REAL PROPERTY FOR USE AS
EV STATION;AN CHARGING

8. THE COST OF ACQUIRING AND INSTALLING ELECTRIC
EQUIPMENT;VEHICLE CHARGING

9. THE COST OF ACQUIRING AND INSTALLING
RESOURCES;DISTRIBUTED ENERGY

10. THE COST TO THE ELECTRIC COMPANY OF
CONNECTING TO THE ELECTRIC GRID AND ANY APPLICABLE CONNECTION
UPGRADES; ~~AND~~

11. CAPACITY, KILOWATT–HOURSTHE IN KILOWATTS OR
APPROPRIATE,AS OF EACH TYPE OF DISTRIBUTED ENERGY RESOURCE USED BY AN
EV STATION;CHARGING

12. EVTHE NUMBER OF CHARGING STATIONS THAT
(A)FAILED TO MEET THE UPTIME REQUIREMENTS UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION;

13. APPLICABLE, EVWHEN THE REASON AN CHARGING
(A)STATION FAILED TO MEET THE UPTIME REQUIREMENTS UNDER SUBSECTION OF
SECTION;THIS AND

14. APPLICABLE, EVWHEN THE DATE AN CHARGING
REPAIRED.STATION WAS

7–905.

(A) ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(B)~~ ~~SECTION,~~ ~~COMMISSION,~~~~TO~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BY~~
~~REGULATION,~~ AN~~ORDER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REQUIRE~~ ~~AN~~ ELECTRIC COMPANY
EV PILOT PROGRAMPARTICIPATING IN THE ~~TO~~ SHALL MAINTAIN AN ADEQUATE
MONITOR, ASSESS, AND, NECESSARY, EVNUMBER OF STAFF TO WHEN REPAIR THE
COMPANY.CHARGING STATIONS OPERATED BY THE ELECTRIC

(B) ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~DETERMINE:~~~~SHALL~~

~~(1)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~STAFF~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ACHIEVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UPTIME~~
~~SUBTITLE;~~~~REQUIREMENTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~AND~~

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 569 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~METHODS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ELECTRIC~~ ~~COMPANY~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~USE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECOVER~~ ~~THE~~
~~COSTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MAINTAINING~~ ~~ADEQUATE~~ ~~STAFF~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ACHIEVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UPTIME~~ ~~REQUIREMENTS~~
~~AN~~ ~~EV~~ ~~PILOT~~~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~ELECTRIC~~ ~~COMPANY~~ ~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~THAT,~~ ~~ACCORDING~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DATA~~ ~~SUBMITTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ELECTRIC~~ ~~COMPANY~~
~~COMMISSION~~ ~~§~~ ~~7–904~~ ~~SUBTITLE,~~~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~FAILS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~SATISFY~~ ~~THE~~
~~§~~ ~~7–904~~~~UPTIME~~ ~~REQUIREMENTS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~FILE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSION~~ ~~FEBRUARY~~ ~~1~~~~A~~ ~~CORRECTIVE~~ ~~ACTION~~ ~~PLAN~~ ~~ON~~ ~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~IMMEDIATELY~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FAILURE~~
~~OCCURRED.~~

~~(C)~~ ~~NOTWITHSTANDING~~ ~~(B)~~ ~~SECTION,~~ THE~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~THE~~
COMMISSION MAY, § 13–201~~AS~~ ~~APPROPRIATE~~ IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
ARTICLE, IMPOSE A PENALTY ON OR TAKE ADDITIONAL REMEDIAL ACTION AGAINST
AN ELECTRIC COMPANY THAT FAILS TO SATISFY THE UPTIME REQUIREMENTS
§ 7–904 SUBTITLE.UNDER OF THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 6 –