PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 466

Chapter 466

(House Bill 827)

AN ACT concerning

Prince George’s ~~County~~ ~~–~~ Gateway ~~Arts~~ Development Authority – Established

FOR the purpose of establishing the Prince George’s Gateway ~~Arts~~ Development Authority
in Prince George’s County to support and develop a certain neighborhood
revitalization plan in coordination with certain residents; and generally relating to
the Prince George’s Gateway ~~Arts~~ Development Authority.

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 12–901 through 12–906 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 9. Prince
George’s ~~County~~ ~~–~~ Gateway ~~Arts~~ Development Authority”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

SUBTITLE 9. PRINCE GEORGE’S ~~COUNTY~~ ~~–~~ GATEWAY ~~ARTS~~ DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY.

12–901.

IN SUBTITLE, “TARGET AREA” CITY MOUNT RAINIER,THIS MEANS THE OF
TOWN BRENTWOOD, TOWN COTTAGE CITY, CITYTHE OF THE OF THE OF
BLADENSBURG, TOWN COLMAR MANOR, TOWN NORTHTHE OF AND THE OF
BRENTWOOD PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.IN

12–902.

THERE PRINCE GEORGE’S GATEWAY ~~ARTS~~ DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITYIS A
PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.IN

12–903.

THE AUTHORITY MEMBERS:CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 466 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(1)~~ ~~SENATE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~~~ONE~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~REPRESENTS~~
~~AREA,~~ ~~PRESIDENT~~ ~~SENATE;~~~~THE~~ ~~TARGET~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~HOUSE~~ ~~DELEGATES~~~~ONE~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~REPRESENTS~~
~~AREA,~~ ~~SPEAKER~~ ~~HOUSE;~~~~THE~~ ~~TARGET~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(3)~~ (1) SECRETARY, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;THE OR THE

~~(4)~~ (2) SECRETARY HOUSING COMMUNITYTHE OF AND
DEVELOPMENT, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

~~(5)~~ (3) CITY MOUNT RAINIER,THE MAYOR OF THE OF OR THE
MAYOR’S DESIGNEE;

~~(6)~~ (4) TOWN BRENTWOOD,THE MAYOR OF THE OF OR THE
MAYOR’S DESIGNEE;

~~(7)~~ (5) COTTAGE CITY COMMISSION,THE CHAIR OF THE OR THE
CHAIR’S DESIGNEE;

~~(8)~~ (6) CITY BLADENSBURG,THE MAYOR OF THE OF OR THE
MAYOR’S DESIGNEE;

~~(9)~~ (7) TOWN COLMAR MANOR,THE MAYOR OF THE OF OR THE
MAYOR’S DESIGNEE;

~~(10)~~ (8) TOWN NORTH BRENTWOOD,THE MAYOR OF THE OF OR THE
MAYOR’S DESIGNEE;

~~(11)~~ (9) ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTTHE DIRECTOR OF THE
DEPARTMENT CITY MOUNT RAINIER;FOR THE OF AND

~~(12)~~ (10) TWO MEMBERS WHO ARE RESIDENTS OF COMMUNITIES
IMPACTED BY THE TARGET AREA SELECTED BY THE MAJORITY VOTE OF THE
MUNICIPALITIES.LEADERSHIP OF THE TARGET AREA

12–904.

(A) THE AUTHORITY MAY MANAGE APPROPRIATED FUNDS FROM
AREA, PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY,MUNICIPALITIES IN THE TARGET AND THE
STATE.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 466

(B) THE AUTHORITY MAY RECEIVE DONATED SERVICES FROM
ACCOUNTANTS, LAWYERS, OR OTHER CONSULTANTS AS NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT
SUBTITLE.THIS

(C) THE AUTHORITY SUPERVISE, MANAGE,MAY AND TERMINATE STAFF
NECESSARY.AND CONSULTANTS AS

12–905.

A AUTHORITY:MEMBER OF THE

(1) MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
AUTHORITY; BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

12–906.

(A) THE AUTHORITY SHALL SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT AND APPROVAL
OF A COMPREHENSIVE NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION PLAN IN THE TARGET
BENEFIT:AREA TO

(1) RESIDENTS;THE

(2) HOUSING;

(3) NEIGHBORHOODS;

(4) DEVELOPMENT;ECONOMIC AND

(5) TRANSPORTATION, INCLUDING MOTOR VEHICLES AND
PEDESTRIANS.

(B) ON OCTOBER 31, 2025, AUTHORITYOR BEFORE THE SHALL REPORT ITS
GOVERNORCOMPREHENSIVE NEIGHBORHOOD REVITALIZATION STRATEGY TO THE
AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE TO
SENATE BUDGET TAXATION COMMITTEE HOUSETHE AND AND THE
APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023. It shall remain effective for a period of 5 years and, at the end of September
30, 2028, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be
abrogated and of no further force and effect.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 466 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 4 –