PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 529

Chapter 529

(House Bill 897)

AN ACT concerning

Homeowners’ Property Tax Credit – Qualified Homeowner – Application and
Certification Requirements

FOR the purpose of altering the application requirements for the homeowners’ property tax
credit to allow homeowners with certain types of income to file an application in
certain years, subject to a certain certification requirement; and generally relating
to the homeowners’ property tax credit.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Tax – Property
Section 9–104(a)(1) and (8)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Tax – Property
Section 9–104(l)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Tax – Property
Section 9–104(v)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Tax – Property

9–104.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(8) (i) “Gross income” means the total income from all sources for the
calendar year that immediately precedes the taxable year, whether or not the income is
included in the definition of gross income for federal or State tax purposes.

(ii) “Gross income” includes:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 529 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

1. any benefit under the Social Security Act or the Railroad
Retirement Act;

2. the aggregate of gifts over $300;

3. alimony;

4. support money;

5. any nontaxable strike benefit;

6. public assistance received in a cash grant;

7. a pension;

8. an annuity;

9. any unemployment insurance benefit;

10. any workers’ compensation benefit;

11. the net income received from a business, rental, or other
endeavor;

12. any withdrawal, payment, or distribution from an
individual retirement account;

13. any withdrawal, payment, or distribution from any
qualified retirement savings plan; and

14. any rent on the dwelling, including the rent from a room
or apartment.

(iii) “Gross income” does not include:

1. any income tax refund received from the State or federal
government; or

2. any loss from business, rental, or other endeavor.

(l) (1) On or before the February 15 that precedes the taxable year in which
the property tax credit under this section is sought, the Department shall make available
that year’s property tax credit application form.

[and], (u), (V)(2) Except as provided in subsections (m) of this section,AND
on or before October 1 of the taxable year in which the property tax credit under this section

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 529

is sought, a homeowner may apply to the Department for a property tax credit under this
section. The application shall be made on the form that the Department provides.

(3) (i) For good cause, the Department may accept an application after
October 1 but on or before October 31 of the taxable year.

(ii) The Department shall notify the homeowner in writing of its
acceptance or rejection of a late application.

(4) The homeowner shall state under oath that the facts in the application
are true.

(5) To substantiate the application, the applicant may be required to
provide a copy of an income tax return, or other evidence detailing gross income or net
worth.

(V) (1) IN SUBSECTION, “QUALIFIED HOMEOWNER”THIS MEANS A
HOMEOWNER WHOSE GROSS INCOME INCLUDES INCOME ONLY FROM THE
SOURCES:FOLLOWING

(I) SOCIAL SECURITY ACT;ANY BENEFIT UNDER THE

(II) PENSION;A OR

(III) ANNUITY.AN

(2) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS ~~FOR~~
~~A~~ ~~QUALIFIED~~ ~~HOMEOWNER~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROPERTY~~ ~~TAX~~ ~~CREDIT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION,~~ ~~(L)~~~~THE~~ ~~APPLICATION~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~
~~NEED~~ ~~BE~~ ~~SUBMITTED~~ ~~ONLY~~ ~~EVERY~~ ~~THIRD~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~
~~QUALIFIED~~ ~~HOMEOWNER~~ ~~FIRST~~ ~~APPLIES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CREDIT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ TO
SECTION,BE ELIGIBLE FOR THE PROPERTY TAX CREDIT UNDER THIS A QUALIFIED
(L)HOMEOWNER IS REQUIRED TO SUBMIT THE APPLICATION UNDER SUBSECTION
IN:OF THIS SECTION ONLY

1. THE FIRST YEAR THE QUALIFIED HOMEOWNER
CREDIT;APPLIES FOR THE AND

2. THEREAFTER.EVERY THIRD YEAR

(II) FOR ANY YEAR IN WHICH THE APPLICATION UNDER
(L) REQUIRED,SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION IS NOT ~~THE~~ TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR THE
SECTION,PROPERTY TAX CREDIT UNDER THIS A QUALIFIED HOMEOWNER SHALL
~~DEPARTMENT~~~~CERTIFY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GROSS~~ ~~INCOME~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~PROVIDED~~

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 529 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(L)~~ ~~CHANGED.~~~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPLICATION~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~NOT~~
DEPARTMENT EITHER:SUBMIT TO THE

1. THAT:A CERTIFICATION

A. THE HOMEOWNER RESIDED IN THE DWELLING FOR AT
6 YEAR;LEAST MONTHS IN THE PRECEDING CALENDAR

B. THE HOMEOWNER CONTINUED TO HAVE INCOME
SOCIAL SECURITY, PENSION,ONLY FROM A OR AN ANNUITY IN THE PRECEDING
YEAR;CALENDAR AND

C. HOMEOWNER’STHE INDIVIDUALS LIVING IN THE
YEAR;HOUSEHOLD DID NOT CHANGE IN THE PRECEDING CALENDAR OR

2. (L)THE APPLICATION UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION.

(III) A QUALIFIED HOMEOWNER WHO SUBMITS A CERTIFICATION
(II)1UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH MAY NOT BE REQUIRED TO
CERTIFICATION.SUBMIT ANY PROOF OF INCOME IN ADDITION TO THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2023, and shall be applicable to all taxable years beginning after June 30, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 4 –