PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 394

Chapter 394

(House Bill 916)

AN ACT concerning

Baltimore City – Alcoholic Beverages – Violation Procedures and Fines

FOR the purpose of establishing procedures for the Board of License Commissioners for
Baltimore City, in the case of an alleged complaint against a licensed establishment
or license holder, to make an offer of a monetary penalty as a compromise in lieu of
a hearing before the Board under certain circumstances; altering the maximum
penalty for certain violations; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages in
Baltimore City.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 12–102 and 12–2802(b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 12–2101 and 12–2802(a) and (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 12–2105
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

12–102.

This title applies only in Baltimore City.

12–2101.

(a) The following sections of Title 4, Subtitle 6 (“Revocation and Suspension of
Local Licenses”) of Division I of this article apply in the City without exception or variation:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 394 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) § 4–602 (“Power of local licensing board”); AND

[§(2) 4–603 (“Revocation and suspension procedures”); and

(3)] § 4–604 (“Grounds for revocation or suspension”).

(b) Section 4–605 (“Nudity and sexual displays”) of Division I of this article does
not apply in the City and is superseded by § 12–2102 of this subtitle.

[Section 4–606] THE TITLE 4, SUBTITLE 6(c) FOLLOWING SECTIONS OF
(“REVOCATION SUSPENSION LOCAL LICENSES”) DIVISION IAND OF OF OF THIS
CITY:ARTICLE APPLY IN THE

(1) § 4–603 (“REVOCATION PROCEDURES”),AND SUSPENSION
§ 12–2105 SUBTITLE;SUBJECT TO OF THIS AND

(2) § 4–606 [of(“Effects of revocation”) Division I of this article applies in
City],the subject to § 12–2104 of this subtitle.

12–2105.

(A) WHEN BOARDTHE NOTIFIES A LICENSE HOLDER OF A VIOLATION
ALLEGED AGAINST THE LICENSE AND GIVES NOTICE FOR THE LICENSE HOLDER TO
HEARING, BOARD COMPROMISE,APPEAR FOR A THE MAY OFFER AS A ON A FORM
BOARD,PROVIDED BY THE A MONETARY PENALTY IF THE LICENSE HOLDER AGREES
TO:

(1) § 4–603VOLUNTARILY WAIVE THE RIGHT TO A HEARING UNDER
ARTICLE;OF THIS

(2) ALLEGED;ADMIT TO THE FACTS OF THE VIOLATION AS

(3) TAKE THE CORRECTIVE ACTION PRESCRIBED IN THE OFFER MADE
BOARD;BY THE AND

(4) OFFERED.ACCEPT THE MONETARY PENALTY

(B) IF A LICENSE HOLDER DOES NOT ACCEPT THE OFFER OF COMPROMISE
BOARD (A) SECTION,MADE BY THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
LICENSE HOLDER MAY ACCEPT SERVICE OF NOTICE OF THE COMPLAINT FROM THE
BOARD BOARDAND INFORM THE OF ITS INTENT TO EXERCISE THE RIGHT TO A
§ 4–603 ARTICLE.HEARING UNDER OF THIS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 394

(C) IF AN OFFER OF COMPROMISE IS ACCEPTED BY A LICENSE HOLDER
(A) SECTION, BOARD SHALL:UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS THE

(1) KEEP A RECORD OF THE INITIAL VIOLATION ALLEGED AGAINST
ESTABLISHMENT;THE LICENSE HOLDER OR THE LICENSED

(2) ISSUE A WRITTEN FINDING THAT THE OFFER OF COMPROMISE
COMMUNITY;DOES NOT IMPAIR THE PROMOTION OF THE PEACE OR SAFETY OF THE

(3) PRACTICABLE, HOLDER’SAS SOON AS STATE THE LICENSE
ACCEPTANCE OF THE OFFER OF COMPROMISE ON THE RECORD AT A HEARING OF
BOARD;THE AND

(4) BOARD’SPOST THE RESULT OF THE DECISION IN A PLACE
PUBLIC.ACCESSIBLE BY THE

(D) THE BOARD SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THIS
SECTION.

12–2802.

(a) For a violation that is cause for suspension of a license, the Board may:

(1) except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, for a first
offense, impose a fine not exceeding $500 or suspend the license or both; or

(2) except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, for each subsequent
[$3,000] $20,000offense, impose a fine not exceeding or suspend the license or both.

(b) For a first offense of selling alcoholic beverages to an individual under the age
of 21 years, the Board may impose a fine not exceeding $1,000 or suspend the license or
both.

(c) (1) For the offense of publicizing, selling tickets for, organizing, operating,
producing, facilitating, or staging a pub crawl with the knowledge or a reason to know that
a pub crawl promoter’s permit required under § 12–1101.1 of this title has not been
[$3,000]obtained, the Board shall impose a fine of not less than $1,000 and not more than
$20,000 or suspend the license or both.

(2) A person who violates § 12–1101.1 of this title may not be granted a
promoter’s permit for at least 1 year.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 394 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 4 –