PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 407

Chapter 407

(House Bill 905)

AN ACT concerning

Garrett County Alcoholic Beverages Act of 2023

FOR the purpose of altering a certain condition under which the Board of License
Commissioners of Garrett County may issue a certain alcoholic beverages license to
a hotel or motel; authorizing a gift basket permit holder to purchase certain alcoholic
beverages from a wholesaler; authorizing a holder of a Class C multiple day beer
license, beer and wine license, or beer, wine, and liquor license to hold another license
that is issued by the Board; authorizing a holder of a multiple event license to hold
another license that is issued by the Board; altering the hours of sale for alcoholic
beverages on Sunday for certain licenses; establishing the framework for the
expiration of alcoholic beverages licenses in the county; and generally relating to
alcoholic beverages in Garrett County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 21–102, 21–902(a), and 21–1001.3(a) and (b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 21–902(c), 21–1001.3(f), 21–1309, 21–1310, 21–2006, and 21–2201
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 21–2202
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

21–102.

This title applies only in Garrett County.

21–902.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 407 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) There is a Class B beer, wine, and liquor license.

(c) The Board may issue the license for use by a hotel or motel that:

(1) is an establishment to accommodate the public by providing customary
hotel or motel services;

[25] 10(2) has at least rooms; and

(3) has a lobby with a registration and mail desk and seating facilities.

21–1001.3.

(a) There is a gift basket permit.

(b) (1) The Board may issue the permit to a person:

(i) whose primary business is the sale and delivery of:

1. flowers; or

2. gift baskets of flowers, food, or other items; and

(ii) who does not hold any other alcoholic beverages license or permit
under this article.

(2) The Board may not issue the permit for use in conjunction with or on
the premises of a chain store, supermarket, or discount house.

(f) The alcoholic beverages contained in a gift basket shall be purchased from a
retail license holder.WHOLESALER OR A

21–1309.

(a) The Board may issue a Class C multiple day beer license, beer and wine
license, and beer, wine, and liquor license to a club for the following fees and license types:

(1) $50 for a 2–day license;

(2) $150 for a 6–day license; and

(3) $300 for a 12–day license.

(B) THE LICENSE HOLDER MAY HOLD ANOTHER LICENSE ISSUED BY THE
BOARD NATURE.THAT IS OF A DIFFERENT CLASS OR

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 407

[(b)] (C) The Board is not required to hold a hearing before issuing a license
under this section if a license holder anticipates attendance of fewer than 500 individuals
at an event.

21–1310.

(a) The Board may issue a multiple event license to a club that qualifies for a
Class C multiple day license.

(b) The Board may not issue more than one multiple event license to a club in a
license year.

(C) THE LICENSE HOLDER MAY HOLD ANOTHER LICENSE ISSUED BY THE
BOARD NATURE.THAT IS OF A DIFFERENT CLASS OR

[(c)] (D) (1) The Board shall publish a notice for application for the license
one time at least 7 days before a license hearing.

(2) A license holder shall notify the Board in writing at least 7 days before
an event for which the license is to be used.

[(d)] (E) The club for which a multiple event license is issued shall ensure that
at least one server who is certified by an approved alcohol awareness program is on the
premises when alcoholic beverages are served.

[(e)] (F) The club for which a multiple event license is issued may cater functions
on their premises.

[(f)] (G) The fee for a Class C multiple event license is:

(1) $125 for not more than 5 events per year;

(2) $250 for not more than 12 events per year;

(3) $375 for not more than 18 events per year; and

(4) $500 for not more than 24 events per year.

21–2006.

(a) This section applies in:

(1) election districts 11 and 15; and

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 407 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) any other election district or precinct of an election district in which the
voters in a referendum authorized by law approve Sunday sales as specified in this section.

(b) (1) This section applies only to off–premises sales by:

(i) a holder of a Class A license;

(ii) a holder of a Class B license, including a Class B&B license, Class
BDR license, and Resort license;

(iii) a holder of a multiple day or multiple event license; and

(iv) a holder of a Class D license.

(2) A holder of a license listed in paragraph (1) of this subsection may sell
alcoholic beverages for off–premises consumption on a Sunday if the license holder may sell
alcoholic beverages for off–premises consumption for the underlying license.

(c) (1) This subsection applies to on–premises sales by:

(i) a holder of a Class B license, including a Class B&B license, Class
BDR license, and Resort license;

(ii) a holder of a Class C license;

(iii) a holder of a multiple day or multiple event license; and

(iv) a holder of a Class D license.

(2) A holder of a license specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection may
sell alcoholic beverages for on–premises consumption on Sunday if the license holder is
authorized by the underlying license to sell alcoholic beverages for on–premises
consumption.

[10] 6(3) Sunday sales authorized under this subsection are from a.m. to
midnight.

21–2201.

(A) [Title Licenses”)] SECTION 4–702(A) (“ON4, Subtitle 7 (“Expiration of Local
HOLDER”) of Division I of this article applies in the county withoutDEATH OF LICENSE
exception or variation.

(B) THE TITLE 4, SUBTITLE 7 (“EXPIRATIONFOLLOWING SECTIONS OF OF
LOCAL LICENSES”) DIVISION I COUNTY:OF OF THIS ARTICLE DO NOT APPLY IN THE

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 407

(1) § 4–702(B) (“AFTER VACATION OF OR EVICTION FROM
PREMISES”);

(2) § 4–703 (“PENDING OR APPROVED TRANSFERS OR CONTINUATION
BUSINESS”);OF

(3) § 4–704 (“LICENSE USE”);FOR PREMISES ACQUIRED FOR PUBLIC
AND

(4) § 4–705 (“POSTPONEMENT HARDSHIP”).TO AVOID

21–2202.

(A) A 6LICENSE EXPIRES MONTHS AFTER THE LICENSE HOLDER HAS
CLOSED THE BUSINESS OR STOPPED ACTIVE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BUSINESS
UNLESS:OPERATIONS AT THE PREMISES FOR WHICH THE LICENSE IS HELD

(1) AN APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF A TRANSFER TO ANOTHER
SUBTITLE 17LOCATION OR ANOTHER PERSON UNDER OF THIS TITLE HAS BEEN
PENDING;APPROVED OR IS

(2) AN APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFICATE OF PERMISSION OR A
SUBTITLE 23RENEWAL LICENSE FOR CONTINUATION OF BUSINESS UNDER OF THIS
PENDING;TITLE HAS BEEN APPROVED OR IS OR

(3) A WRITTEN REQUEST FOR A HARDSHIP EXTENSION UNDER
(B) 6–MONTH PERIOD.SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION IS FILED WITHIN THE

(B) EXCEPT (D) SECTION:AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS

(1) THE LICENSE HOLDER OR ANOTHER APPROPRIATE INTERESTED
BOARDPARTY MAY MAKE A WRITTEN REQUEST TO THE TO EXTEND THE LIFE OF THE
HARDSHIP;LICENSE DUE TO

(2) (1)SUBMISSION OF A REQUEST UNDER ITEM OF THIS SUBSECTION
1SHALL AUTOMATICALLY EXTEND THE LIFE OF THE LICENSE FOR YEAR AFTER THE
OPERATIONS;DATE OF THE CLOSING OR STOPPING OF BUSINESS AND

(3) A HARDSHIP EXTENSION MAY NOT PROLONG THE LIFE OF AN
OF:INACTIVE LICENSE BEYOND THE TOTAL

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 407 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) 1 YEAR AFTER THE DATE OF CLOSING OR STOPPING OF
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BUSINESS OPERATIONS AT THE PREMISES FOR WHICH THE
HELD;LICENSE IS AND

(II) ANY TIME PERIOD DURING WHICH THE LICENSE IS
(A)(1) (2) SECTION.SUSPENDED UNDER SUBSECTION OR OF THIS

(C) (1) THE PERIOD FOR WHICH A LICENSE MAY BE CONSIDERED
UNEXPIRED:

(I) BEGINS AT THE EARLIER OF THE CLOSING OF THE BUSINESS
OPERATIONS;OR STOPPING OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BUSINESS AND

(II) MAY BE SUSPENDED ONLY BY FILING AN APPLICATION OR
(A) SECTION.REQUEST UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

(2) THE EXPIRATION PERIOD RESUMES ON THE LAST TO OCCUR OF
EVENTS:THE FOLLOWING

(I) BOARDFINAL ACTION OF THE DENYING AN APPLICATION
(A)(1) (2) SECTION;DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION OR OF THIS

(II) FINAL JUDGMENT OF THE REVIEWING COURT IF JUDICIAL
BOARD’SREVIEW OF THE ACTION ON AN APPLICATION OR REQUEST AUTHORIZED BY
(A)(1) (2) BOARD’S ACTION;SUBSECTION OR OF THIS SECTION HAS AFFIRMED THE
OR

(III) DISMISSAL OF A PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW OF THE
BOARD’S ACTION.

(3) IF (A)AN APPLICATION OR REQUEST DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION
(B) WITHDRAWN:OR OF THIS SECTION IS

(I) THE PERIOD FOR AUTOMATIC EXPIRATION OF THE LICENSE
MAY NOT BE SUSPENDED ON THE BASIS OF THE WITHDRAWN APPLICATION OR
REQUEST; AND

(II) THE APPLICATION OR REQUEST SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS
FILED.IF IT HAD NOT BEEN

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 407

(D) IF A LICENSED PREMISES IS FORCED TO CLOSE BECAUSE OF A
LOSS, BOARD, APPROVAL,CASUALTY THE WITHOUT CIRCUIT COURT MAY EXTEND
2 CLOSING.THE LICENSE FOR NOT MORE THAN YEARS AFTER THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 7 –