PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 570

Chapter 570

(House Bill 910)

AN ACT concerning

Energy Storage – Targets and Maryland Energy Storage Program –
Establishment

FOR the purpose of requiring the Public Service Commission to establish certain targets
for the deployment of new energy storage devices in the State; requiring the
Commission to establish and implement the Maryland Energy Storage Program to
meet certain energy storage goals and develop a certain energy storage system in the
State; and generally relating to energy storage in the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, ~~without~~ with amendments,
Article – Public Utilities
Section 7–216(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Public Utilities
Section 7–216.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

Preamble

WHEREAS, Energy storage systems provide benefits to the electric grid and utility
customers by: enabling the transition to a clean grid with diversified renewable resources;
creating system efficiencies that can reduce costs and save money for utilities and
ratepayers; bolstering grid reliability and resilience; improving system capabilities to
withstand shocks and stressors; and promoting economic development and job creation in
Maryland communities; now, therefore,

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Utilities

7–216.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) (i) “Energy storage device” means a resource capable of absorbing
electrical energy, storing it for a period of time, and delivering the energy for use at a later
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 570 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

time as needed, regardless of where the resource is located on the electric distribution
system.

(ii) “Energy storage device” includes all types of electric storage
purpose, INCLUDING:technologies, regardless of their size, storage medium, or operational

1. STORAGE;THERMAL

2. STORAGE;ELECTROCHEMICAL

3. PLANTS;VIRTUAL POWER AND

4. HYDROGEN–BASED STORAGE.

(3) “Investor–owned electric company” means an electric company that is
not a municipal electric utility or an electric cooperative.

7–216.1.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “ENERGY DEVICE” §STORAGE HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
7–216 SUBTITLE.OF THIS

(3) “DELIVERY YEAR” PJMHAS THE MEANING STATED IN THE
INTERCONNECTION GLOSSARY.

(4) “INVESTOR–OWNED COMPANY”ELECTRIC HAS THE MEANING
§ 7–216 SUBTITLE.STATED IN OF THIS

(5) “PROGRAM” MARYLAND ENERGY STORAGEMEANS THE
PROGRAM.

(B) (1) THE COMMISSION SHALL ESTABLISH TARGETS FOR THE
STATECOST–EFFECTIVE DEPLOYMENT OF NEW ENERGY STORAGE DEVICES IN THE
ACHIEVING:~~OF~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ WITH A GOAL OF

~~(1)~~ (I) 750 ~~MEGAWATT–HOURS~~ MEGAWATTS OF CUMULATIVE
2027;ENERGY STORAGE CAPACITY BY THE END OF DELIVERY YEAR

~~(2)~~ (II) 1,500 ~~MEGAWATT–HOURS~~ MEGAWATTS OF CUMULATIVE
2030;ENERGY STORAGE CAPACITY BY THE END OF DELIVERY YEAR AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 570

~~(3)~~ (III) 3,000 ~~MEGAWATT–HOURS~~ MEGAWATTS OF CUMULATIVE
2033.ENERGY STORAGE CAPACITY BY THE END OF DELIVERY YEAR

(2) IF (1)A TARGET SPECIFIED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
EFFECTIVELY,CANNOT BE MET COST THE TARGET SHALL BE REDUCED TO THE
COST–EFFECTIVE STORAGE,MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF ENERGY MEASURED IN
MEGAWATTS, THAT CAN BE DEPLOYED BY THE END OF THE DELIVERY YEAR FOR THE
TARGET.

(C) (1) THE COMMISSION MARYLAND ENERGYSHALL ESTABLISH THE
STORAGE PROGRAM.

(2) THE PROGRAM JULY 1,SHALL BE IMPLEMENTED NO LATER THAN
~~2024~~ 2025.

(3) THE PROGRAM INCLUDE:SHALL

~~(I)~~ COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT MECHANISMS TO REACH A
3,000 STORAGE,MINIMUM OF MEGAWATTS OF ENERGY OR THE MAXIMUM
COST–EFFECTIVE DEPLOYED,AMOUNT OF ENERGY STORAGE THAT CAN BE BY THE
2033;.END OF DELIVERY YEAR

(4) THE PROGRAM INCLUDE:MAY

~~(II)~~ (I) A SYSTEM OF ENERGY STORAGE CREDITS AND
MARKET–BASED TO:INCENTIVES DESIGNED

1. DEVELOP A ROBUST ENERGY STORAGE MARKET IN
STATE;THE AND

2. DEPLOY ENERGY STORAGE DEVICES IN A
COST–EFFECTIVE MANNER;

~~(III)~~ ~~POWER~~ ~~PURCHASE~~ ~~AGREEMENTS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~ARE~~
~~INVESTOR–OWNED~~~~COMPETITIVELY~~ ~~BID~~ ~~BY~~ ~~ELECTRIC~~ ~~COMPANIES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~INITIATE~~
~~CONTRACTS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ENERGY~~ ~~STORAGE~~ ~~DEVICES~~ ~~OR~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~CREDITS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~ENERGY~~
~~§~~ ~~7–216~~ ~~SUBTITLE;~~~~STORAGE~~ ~~PROJECTS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~AND~~

(II) INVESTOR–OWNEDA REQUIREMENT THAT ELECTRIC
COMPANIES:

1. INSTALL OR CONTRACT FOR ENERGY STORAGE
DEVICES; OR

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 570 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

2. CONTRACT FOR CREDITS FROM AN ENERGY STORAGE
§ 7–216 SUBTITLE;PROJECT UNDER OF THIS ~~OR~~

~~(IV)~~ (III) PROGRAMA REQUIREMENT THAT PARTICIPANTS
STATEMAKE REASONABLE EFFORTS TO APPLY FOR ALL APPLICABLE AND FEDERAL
GRANTS, REBATES, CREDITS, GUARANTEES,TAX LOAN AND OTHER SIMILAR
AVAILABLE;BENEFITS AS THE BENEFITS BECOME OR

(IV) COMMISSIONANY OTHER MECHANISM OR POLICY THAT THE
ROBUST,DETERMINES IS APPROPRIATE TO ACHIEVE THE GOAL OF A
COST–EFFECTIVE STATE.ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM IN THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before December 31,
2023, the Commission shall report to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257
of the State Government Article, on pending designs for the Maryland Energy Storage
Program and any additional statutory changes required to fully implement an effective
Maryland Energy Storage Program to meet the minimum targets for the deployment of new
energy storage devices under § 7–216.1 of the Public Utilities Article, as enacted by Section
1 of this Act.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 4 –