PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

Chapter 114

(House Bill 984)

AN ACT concerning

Public Employee Relations Act

FOR the purpose of consolidating and altering certain laws governing collective bargaining
for certain public employees, including laws related to the establishment of
bargaining units, elections and certification of exclusive representatives, employee
and employer rights, unfair labor practices, and strikes and lockouts; establishing
the Public Employee Relations Board to oversee collective bargaining activities for
certain public employees; repealing the State Labor Relations Board, the State
Higher Education Labor Relations Board, and the Public School Labor Relations
Board; establishing that certain grievance procedures for State employees serve as
a certain procedure for certain disputes between certain parties; ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~
~~of~~ ~~Administrative~~ ~~Hearings~~ ~~to~~ ~~resolve~~ ~~certain~~ ~~disputes~~ ~~regarding~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~
~~memorandum~~ ~~of~~ ~~understanding~~ ~~or~~ ~~written~~ ~~agreement~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~ ~~circumstances;~~
and generally relating to collective bargaining for public employees.

BY repealing
Article – Education
Section 6–403, 6–406, 6–407, 6–407.2, 6–409 through 6–411, 6–504, 6–506, 6–507,
6–509, 6–509.2, and 6–512 through 6–514; 6–801 through 6–807 and the
subtitle “Subtitle 8. Public School Labor Relations Board”; and 16–704
through 16–706, 16–710, 16–712, 16–714, and 16–715
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 3–201 through 3–209 and the subtitle “Subtitle 2. State Labor Relations
Board”; 3–2A–01 through 3–2A–09 and the subtitle “Subtitle 2A. State Higher
Education Labor Relations Board”; 3–301 through 3–307 and the subtitle
“Subtitle 3. Rights of Employees and Employers; Strikes, Lockouts, and
Unfair Labor Practices Prohibited”; and 3–401 through 3–407 and the subtitle
“Subtitle 4. Election and Certification of Exclusive Representative”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY renumbering
Article – Education
Section 6–404, 6–405, 6–407.1, 6–408, 6–408.1, 6–505, 6–508, 6–509.1, 6–510,
16–707, 16–708, 16–709, 16–711, and 16–713
to be Section 6–403, 6–404, 6–405, 6–406, 6–407, 6–504, 6–505, 6–506, 6–507,
16–704, 16–705, 16–706, 16–707, and 16–708, respectively
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 2–205(e)(4), 6–401, 6–402, 6–501, 6–503, 9.5–703(c)(2) and (3), 16–701,
16–702, and 16–703
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 6–403, 6–404, ~~6–406(c)(3),~~ 6–405, 6–504, 6–505, ~~6–507(c)(3),~~ 6–506, and
16–708
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)
(As enacted by Section 3 of this Act)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 15–903(c)(2) and (3)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Government
Section 21–101 through 21–601 to be under the new title “Title 21. Public Employee
Relations”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 3–101, 3–501(e), and 3–502
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 3–102(c) and (d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 6–403, 6–406, 6–407, 6–407.2, 6–409 through 6–411, 6–504, 6–506, 6–507,
6–509, 6–509.2, 6–512 through 6–514; 6–801 through 6–807 and the subtitle “Subtitle 8.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

Public School Labor Relations Board”; and 16–704 through 16–706, 16–710, 16–712,
16–714, and 16–715 of Article – Education of the Annotated Code of Maryland be repealed.

SECTION 2 AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section(s) 3–201 through
3–209 and the subtitle “Subtitle 2. State Labor Relations Board”; 3–2A–01 through
3–2A–09 and the subtitle “Subtitle 2A. State Higher Education Labor Relations Board”;
3–301 through 3–307 and the subtitle “Subtitle 3. Rights of Employees and Employers;
Strikes, Lockouts, and Unfair Labor Practices Prohibited”; and 3–401 through 3–407 and
the subtitle “Subtitle 4. Election and Certification of Exclusive Representative” of Article –
State Personnel and Pensions of the Annotated Code of Maryland be repealed.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section(s) 6–404, 6–405,
6–407.1, 6–408, 6–408.1, 6–505, 6–508, 6–509.1, 6–510, 16–707, 16–708, 16–709, 16–711,
and 16–713 of Article – Education of the Annotated Code of Maryland be renumbered to be
Section(s) 6–403, 6–404, 6–405, 6–406, 6–407, 6–504, 6–505, 6–506, 6–507, 16–704, 16–705,
16–706, 16–707, and 16–708, respectively.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Education

2–205.

[School Labor] EMPLOYEE(e) (4) (i) The Public Relations Board shall
decide any controversy or dispute arising under Title 6, Subtitle 4 or Subtitle 5 of this
article.

[School Labor] EMPLOYEE(ii) A decision of the Public Relations
Board is final.

6–401.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[School Labor] EMPLOYEE(b) “Board” means the Public Relations Board
[established title].under Subtitle 8 of this

(b–1) “Day” means a calendar day unless otherwise indicated.

[means(c) “Employee organization” an organization that:

(1) Includes certificated employees of a public school employer or
individuals of equivalent status in Baltimore City; and

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) Has as one of its main purposes the representation of the employees in
employer] § 21–101their relations with that public school HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.OF THE

(d) (1) “Home and hospital teacher” means a teacher employed by a public
school employer to provide instructional services to a public school student who is unable
to function effectively in the classroom setting due to the student’s medical, physical, or
emotional condition.

(2) A home and hospital teacher may teach in:

(i) A private home;

(ii) A hospital;

(iii) A therapeutic center;

(iv) A school; or

(v) Any other appropriate site.

(d–1) “New employee processing” means the process for a newly hired public school
employee, whether in person, online, or through other means, in which new employees are
advised of their employment status, rights, benefits, duties, responsibilities, and other
employment–related matters.

(e) (1) “Public school employee” means a certificated professional individual
who is employed by a public school employer or an individual of equivalent status in
Baltimore City, except for a county superintendent or an individual designated by the
public school employer to act in a negotiating capacity as provided in § 6–408(c) of this
subtitle.

(2) In Montgomery County, “public school employees” include:

(i) Certificated and noncertificated substitute teachers employed by
the public school employer for at least 7 days before March 1 of the school fiscal year ending
June 30, 1978, and each year after; and

(ii) Home and hospital teachers employed by the public school
employer for at least 7 days before March 1 of the school fiscal year ending June 30, 2000,
and each year after.

(3) In Baltimore County, “public school employee” includes a secondary
school nurse, an elementary school nurse, and a special school nurse.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(4) In Frederick County, “public school employee” includes a social worker
employed by a public school employer.

(5) In Prince George’s County, “public school employee” includes home and
hospital teachers and Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) instructors.

(6) In Baltimore County, Calvert County, Charles County, and Garrett
County, “public school employee” includes Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC)
instructors.

(7) In Carroll County, “public school employee” includes:

(i) A registered nurse;

(ii) Supervisory noncertificated employees as defined under §
6–501(i) of this title; and

(iii) Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) instructors.

(f) “Public school employer” means a county board of education or the Baltimore
City Board of School Commissioners.

6–402.

(a) Public school employees may form, join, and participate in the activities of
employee organizations of their own choice for the purpose of being represented on all
matters that relate to salaries, wages, hours, and other working conditions.

[(b) An employee organization may establish reasonable:

(1) Restrictions as to who may join; and

membership.](2) Provisions for the dismissal of individuals from

(B) PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYERS,SCHOOL PUBLIC SCHOOL AND
TITLE 21EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVES ARE SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.THE

6–403.

[Each(a) public school employer shall designate, as provided in this subtitle,
which employee organization, if any, shall be the exclusive representative of all public
school employees in a specified unit in the county.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the public school
employer shall determine the composition of the unit in negotiation with any employee
organization that requests negotiation concerning the composition of the unit.

(2)] In St. Mary’s County, licensed registered school nurses, Junior Reserve
Officers’ Training Corps (JROTC) teachers, and supervisory noncertificated employees of
the public school employer shall be included in the unit.

[(c)] (B) (1) There may not be more than two units in a county.

(2) In Baltimore County, one of the units shall consist of employees who
are administrative and supervisory certificated employees. The second unit shall consist of
all other public school employees as defined under § 6–401(e)(1) and (3) of this subtitle.

[(d)] (C) All eligible public school employees shall:

(1) Be included in one of these units; and

TITLE 21 STATE(2) Have the rights granted in this subtitle AND OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

6–404.

[The(a) designation of an employee organization as an exclusive representative
shall be made as provided in this section.

(b) If an employee organization certifies to the public school employer that it has
a membership enrollment of at least 30 percent of the total number of public school
employees in a specified unit in a county as of June 1 of the year in which certification is
made, this certification is a request for recognition as exclusive representative of all public
school employees in the specified unit in the county.

(c) If another employee organization certifies that it has a membership
enrollment of at least 10 percent of the total number of public school employees in the unit
as of the same June 1, an election shall be held in which the public school employees in the
unit shall be offered the opportunity to choose:

(1) One of the employee organizations as the exclusive representative of all
public school employees in the unit; or

(2) Not to have exclusive representation.

(d) If no other employee organization certifies that it has a membership
enrollment of at least 10 percent of the total number of public school employees in the unit,
on the request of the employee organization under subsection (b) of this section, an election
shall be held and the ballot shall offer a choice between:

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(1) Exclusive representation by the organization; and

(2) Not to have exclusive representation.

(e) The public school employer shall designate the employee organization
described in subsection (b) of this section as the exclusive representative of all public school
employees in the specified unit in a county if:

(1) No other employee organization certifies that it has a membership
enrollment of at least 10 percent of the total number of public school employees in the unit;

(2) The employee organization does not request an election under
subsection (d) of this section; and

(3) The employee organization certifies that it has a membership
enrollment of the majority of the public school employees in the unit in the county.

(f) (1) The Board shall adopt rules and regulations for:

(i) Verifying the number of certificated employees of the public
school employer or individuals of equivalent status in Baltimore City who are members in
good standing of an employee organization on the date of the certification or who have
signed a petition under this section; and

(ii) Holding elections under this section and the certification of their
results.

(2) The Board shall provide for supervision of these elections.

elections] AN TITLE 21, SUBTITLE 4(3) The ELECTION HELD UNDER
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE shall be held:OF THE

[(i)] (1) In each school facility where public employees are
assigned on a regularly scheduled school day;

[(ii)] (2) In a manner assuring the secrecy of the ballot; and

[(iii)] (3) On a regular working day for public school employees,
between June 1 and June 15, inclusive, except in Baltimore City where the elections shall
be held between November 1 and November 15 following the date on which certification of
required membership enrollment is made.

[(4) In any election held under this section, the employee organization that
receives the largest number of votes cast in a unit shall be declared to be the exclusive
representative of all public school employees in the unit. If the largest number of votes in

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

the election is cast not to have exclusive representation, a representative may not be
designated for the unit.

(5)] (B) The public school employer shall provide any assistance required
in holding the elections.

6–405.

(a) (1) (i) Each public school employer shall provide the exclusive
representative access to new employee processing.

(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, the
public school employer shall provide the exclusive representative at least 10 days’ notice in
advance of a new employee processing.

(iii) The public school employer may provide the exclusive
representative with less than 10 days’ notice if there is an urgent need critical to the public
school employer’s new employee processing that was not reasonably foreseeable.

(2) (i) The structure, time, and manner of the access required in
paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be determined through negotiations between the
[§ 6–408] §public school employer and the exclusive representative in accordance with
6–406 of this subtitle.

(ii) When negotiating access to new employee processing under
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, if any dispute has not been resolved within 45 days
after the first meeting of the public school employer and the exclusive representative, or
within 60 days after an initial request to negotiate, whichever occurs first, either party may
[§ 6–408(e)] § 6–406(E)request that the Board declare an impasse under of this subtitle.

[§ 6–408(e)] § 6–406(E)(iii) In an impasse proceeding under of this
subtitle, the mediator or Board shall consider:

1. The ability of the exclusive representative to communicate
with the public school employees it represents;

2. The legal obligations of the exclusive representative to the
public school employees;

3. Applicable State, federal, and local laws;

4. Any stipulations of the parties;

5. The interests and welfare of the public school employees
and the financial condition of the public school employer;

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

6. The structure, time, and manner of access of an exclusive
representative to new employee processing in comparable public school employers,
including the access provisions in other memoranda of understanding or collective
bargaining agreements; and

7. Any other facts routinely considered in establishing the
structure, time, and manner of access of an exclusive representative to new employee
processing.

(3) (i) A request to negotiate under paragraph (2) of this subsection
made between July 1, 2018, and the expiration date of an existing collective bargaining
agreement between the parties shall reopen the existing collective bargaining agreement
only for the purpose of negotiating the access of the exclusive representative to the public
school employer’s new employee processing.

(ii) Either party may elect to negotiate a separate agreement on the
access of the exclusive representative to the public school employer’s new employee
processing in lieu of reopening the existing collective bargaining agreement.

(b) This section does not prohibit a public school employer and an exclusive
representative from negotiating access to new employee processing that varies from the
requirements of this section.

(c) Nothing in this section shall abrogate existing collective bargaining
agreements between public school employers and exclusive representatives.

~~6–406.~~

~~calendar[,~~~~(c)~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~A~~ ~~public~~ ~~school~~ ~~employer~~ ~~may~~ ~~not~~ ~~negotiate~~ ~~the~~ ~~school~~ ~~the~~
~~class,]~~~~maximum~~ ~~number~~ ~~of~~ ~~students~~ ~~assigned~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~or~~ ~~any~~ ~~matter~~ ~~that~~ ~~is~~ ~~precluded~~ ~~by~~
~~applicable~~ ~~statutory~~ ~~law.~~

6–501.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[School Labor] EMPLOYEE(b) “Board” means the Public Relations Board
[established title].under Subtitle 8 of this

(c) “Confidential employee” includes an individual whose employment
responsibilities require knowledge of the public school employer’s posture in the collective
negotiation process, as determined by the public school employer in negotiations with an
employee organization that requests negotiation on this issue.

(c–1) “Day” means a calendar day unless otherwise indicated.

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[means(d) “Employee organization” an organization that:

(1) Includes noncertificated employees of a public school employer; and

(2) Has as one of its main purposes the representation of the employees in
employer] § 21–101their relations with that public school HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.OF THE

[“Management personnel”] “MANAGERIAL EMPLOYEE”(e) includes an
individual who is engaged mainly in executive and managerial functions.

(e–1) “New employee processing” means the process for a newly hired public school
employee, whether in person, online, or through other means, in which new employees are
advised of their employment status, rights, benefits, duties, responsibilities, and other
employment–related matters.

(f) “Noncertificated employee”, in Montgomery County, means only a full–time
employee.

(g) (1) “Public school employee” means a noncertificated individual who is
employed for at least 9 months a year on a full–time basis by a public school employer.

(2) “Public school employee” includes a noncertificated employee in
Baltimore City notwithstanding that the noncertificated employee does not work for at
least 9 months a year on a full–time basis.

(3) “Public school employee” does not include:

[Management personnel] A(i) EMPLOYEE;MANAGERIAL OR

employee[;(ii) A confidential or

(iii) Any individual designated by the public school employer to act in
subtitle].a negotiating capacity as provided in § 6–510(c) of this

(h) (1) “Public school employer” means the county board in each county.

(2) “Public school employer” includes the Baltimore City Board of School
Commissioners.

(i) “Supervisory employee” includes any individual who responsibly directs the
work of other employees.

6–503.

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(a) Public school employees may form, join, and participate in the activities of
employee organizations of their own choice for the purpose of being represented on all
matters that relate to salaries, wages, hours, and other working conditions.

[(b) An employee organization may establish reasonable restrictions as to who
may join and reasonable provisions for the dismissal of individuals from membership,
except that these restrictions and provisions may not discriminate with regard to the terms
or conditions of membership because of race, color, marital status, creed, sex, age, or
origin.]national

(B) PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYERS,SCHOOL PUBLIC SCHOOL AND
TITLE 21EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVES ARE SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.THE

6–504.

[(1)(a) Each public school employer may designate, as provided in this subtitle,
which employee organization, if any, shall be the exclusive representative of all public
school employees in a specified unit in the county.

(2) In Baltimore City, Garrett County, and Frederick County, the public
school employer shall designate, as provided in this subtitle, which employee organization,
if any, shall be the exclusive representative of all public school employees in a specified unit
in the county.

(b) The public school employer shall determine the composition of the unit in
negotiation with any employee organization that requests negotiation concerning the
composition of the unit.

(c)] (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (3) and (5) of this subsection, there
may not be more than three units in a county and a unit may not include both supervisory
and nonsupervisory employees.

(2) If a county has more than three recognized units and, as of July 1, 1974,
the units have exclusive representation for collective negotiations, these units may
continue as negotiating units.

(3) In Baltimore County, there shall be three units, including one unit of
supervisory employees as defined in § 6–501(i) of this subtitle.

(4) In Carroll County, beginning on October 1, 2007:

(i) There shall be no more than three units; and

(ii) All units shall be nonsupervisory units.

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(5) In Baltimore City, the public school employer may designate a fourth
unit composed of all Baltimore City school police officers, as defined in § 4–318 of this
article, up to and including the rank of lieutenant.

[(d) (1)] (B) All eligible public school employees shall:

[(i)] (1) Be included in one of these units; and

[(ii)] (2) Have the rights granted in this subtitle.

[(2) Except for an individual who is designated as management personnel
or a confidential employee under this subtitle, each public school employee is eligible for
units.]membership in one of the negotiating

6–505.

(a) Employee organizations recognized by the public school employer as the
exclusive representative of all public school employees in a specified unit on July 1, 1978
representative[:shall continue to be the exclusive

(1) For the rest of the 2–year initial period as provided by § 6–507 of this
subtitle; and

(2) Beyond the 2–year period until another election is held as provided
subtitle] TITLE 21, SUBTITLE 4 STATEunder § 6–507 of this SUBJECT TO OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

(b) Any collective negotiation agreement that has been entered into by an
exclusive representative and a public employer as of July 1, 1978 shall continue in effect
for the term of the agreement.

6–506.

(a) (1) (i) Each public school employer shall provide the exclusive
representative access to new employee processing.

(ii) Except as provided in subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, the
public school employer shall provide the exclusive representative at least 10 days’ notice in
advance of a new employee processing.

(iii) The public school employer may provide the exclusive
representative with less than 10 days’ notice if there is an urgent need critical to the public
school employer’s new employee processing that was not reasonably foreseeable.

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(2) (i) The structure, time, and manner of the access required in
paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be determined through negotiations between the
[§ 6–510] §public school employer and the exclusive representative in accordance with
6–507 of this subtitle.

(ii) When negotiating access to new employee processing under
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, if any dispute has not been resolved within 45 days
after the first meeting of the public school employer and the exclusive representative, or
within 60 days after an initial request to negotiate, whichever occurs first, either party may
[§ 6–510(e)] § 6–507(E)request that the Board declare an impasse under of this subtitle.

[§ 6–510(e)] § 6–507(E)(iii) In an impasse proceeding under of this
subtitle, the mediator or Board shall consider:

1. The ability of the exclusive representative to communicate
with the public school employees it represents;

2. The legal obligations of the exclusive representative to the
public school employees;

3. Applicable State, federal, and local laws;

4. Any stipulations of the parties;

5. The interests and welfare of the public school employees
and the financial condition of the public school employer;

6. The structure, time, and manner of access of an exclusive
representative to new employee processing in comparable public school employers,
including the access provisions in other memoranda of understanding or collective
bargaining agreements; and

7. Any other facts routinely considered in establishing the
structure, time, and manner of access of an exclusive representative to new employee
processing.

(3) (i) A request to negotiate under paragraph (2) of this subsection
made between July 1, 2018, and the expiration date of an existing collective bargaining
agreement between the parties shall reopen the existing collective bargaining agreement
only for the purpose of negotiating the access of the exclusive representative to the public
school employer’s new employee processing.

(ii) Either party may elect to negotiate a separate agreement on the
access of the exclusive representative to the public school employer’s new employee
processing in lieu of reopening the existing collective bargaining agreement.

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) This section does not prohibit a public school employer and an exclusive
representative from negotiating access to new employee processing that varies from the
requirements of this section.

(c) Nothing in this section shall abrogate existing collective bargaining
agreements between public school employers and exclusive representatives.

~~6–507.~~

~~calendar[,~~~~(c)~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~A~~ ~~public~~ ~~school~~ ~~employer~~ ~~may~~ ~~not~~ ~~negotiate~~ ~~the~~ ~~school~~ ~~the~~
~~class,]~~~~maximum~~ ~~number~~ ~~of~~ ~~students~~ ~~assigned~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~or~~ ~~any~~ ~~matter~~ ~~that~~ ~~is~~ ~~precluded~~ ~~by~~
~~applicable~~ ~~statutory~~ ~~law.~~

9.5–703.

[State Labor] PUBLIC(c) (2) All elections shall be conducted by the
EMPLOYEE [TitleRelations Board and subject to the requirements and limitations of 3,
Article] TITLE 21, SUBTITLE 4Subtitle 4 of the State Personnel and Pensions OF THE
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

[State Labor] PUBLIC EMPLOYEE(3) The Relations Board may not
conduct an election for an exclusive representative if an election or certification of an
exclusive representative has taken place within the preceding 2 years.

16–701.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Agreement” means a written contract between a public employer and an
employee organization.

(c) “Arbitration” means a procedure by which parties involved in a grievance
submit their differences to an impartial third party for a final and binding decision.

[State Labor] PUBLIC EMPLOYEE(d) “Board” means the Higher Education
Relations Board.

§ 3–101(D)(e) “Collective bargaining” has the meaning stated in ~~§~~ ~~3–101(c)~~ of
the State Personnel and Pensions Article.

~~[means~~(f) “Confidential employee” a public employee whose unrestricted access
to personnel, budgetary, or fiscal data subject to use by the public employer in collective
bargaining, or whose close, continuing working relationship with those responsible for
negotiating on behalf of the public employer, would make the employee’s membership in an
employee organization as a rank and file employee incompatible with the employee’s

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

~~duties]~~ ~~§~~ ~~21–101~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~GOVERNMENT~~~~HAS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANING~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ARTICLE.~~

[means(g) “Employee organization” a labor organization of public employees that
bargaining]has as one of its primary purposes representing those employees in collective
§ 21–101 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE

[means(h) “Exclusive representative” an employee organization that has been
unit]certified by the Board as representing the employees of a bargaining HAS THE
§ 21–101 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.MEANING STATED IN OF THE

(i) “Fact–finding” means a process conducted by the Board that includes:

(1) The identification of the major issues in an impasse;

(2) The review of the positions of the parties; and

(3) A resolution of factual differences by an impartial individual or panel.

(j) (1) “Faculty” means employees whose assignments involve academic
responsibilities, including teachers and department heads.

(2) “Faculty” does not include officers, supervisory employees, confidential
employees, part–time faculty, or student assistants.

(k) “Grievance” means a dispute concerning the application or interpretation of
the terms of a collective bargaining agreement.

(l) “Impasse” means a failure by a public employer and an exclusive
representative to achieve agreement in the course of negotiations.

(m) “Officer” means the president, a vice president, a dean, or any other similar
official of the community college as appointed by the board of community college trustees.

(n) “Part–time faculty” means employees whose assignments involve academic
responsibilities, including teachers, counselors, and department heads, who are designated
with part–time faculty status by the president of the community college.

(o) (1) “Public employee” means an employee employed by a public employer.

(2) “Public employee” includes faculty and part–time faculty at the
Baltimore City Community College.

(3) “Public employee” does not include:

(i) Officers;
– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) Supervisory or confidential employees; or

(iii) Student assistants.

(p) (1) “Public employer” means the board of community college trustees for a
community college.

(2) “Public employer” includes the Board of Trustees of Baltimore City
Community College for the purposes of collective bargaining with faculty and part–time
faculty.

[(q) (1) “Showing of interest form” means a written statement from a public
employee who wishes to be represented by a petitioning employee organization for the
purpose of collective bargaining.

(2) “Showing of interest form” includes:

(i) A union authorization card; and

(ii) A union membership card.

(r) “Strike” means, in concerted action with others for the purpose of inducing,
influencing, or coercing a change in the wages, hours, or other terms and conditions of
employment, a public employee’s:

(1) Refusal to report for duty;

(2) Willful absence from the position;

(3) Stoppage of work; or

(4) Abstinence in whole or in part from the proper performance of the
duties of employment.

(s) “Supervisory employee” means a public employee who has full–time and
exclusive authority to act on behalf of a public employer to:

(1) Hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign,
reward, or discipline other employees; or

grievances.](2) Adjust employee

16–702.

(a) It is the intent of the General Assembly that:

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(1) The State promote harmonious and cooperative relationships with the
public employees of the community college system by encouraging collective bargaining
practices, protecting the rights of public employees to associate, organize, and vote for their
own exclusive representatives, and recognizing the dignity of labor for all employees of the
community college system; and

(2) A delay in implementation of this subtitle shall be to ensure that
community colleges are granted sufficient time to plan for potential negotiations and may
not be used to plan for, or engage in, activities that would discourage or otherwise coerce
employees seeking to hold an election.

(b) This subtitle shall apply:

(1) Beginning on September 1, 2022, to:

(i) Anne Arundel Community College;

(ii) Community College of Baltimore County;

(iii) Frederick Community College;

(iv) Harford Community College;

(v) Howard Community College;

(vi) Montgomery College;

(vii) Prince George’s Community College; and

(viii) College of Southern Maryland;

(2) Beginning on September 1, 2023, to:

(i) Allegany College of Maryland;

(ii) Carroll Community College;

(iii) Cecil College;

(iv) Chesapeake College;

(v) Garrett College;

(vi) Hagerstown Community College; and

– 17 –

PAGE 18
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(vii) Wor–Wic Community College; and

(3) Beginning October 1, 2024, Baltimore City Community College.

(C) PUBLIC EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYERS,PUBLIC AND EXCLUSIVE
TITLE 21 STATEREPRESENTATIVES ARE SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

16–703.

[(a) The Board shall conduct an election for an exclusive representative of a
bargaining unit if:

(1) A valid petition is submitted in accordance with § 16–704 of this
subtitle; and

(2) The bargaining unit involved in the petition is determined to be an
appropriate bargaining unit under subsections (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) (1) Except as provided in this subtitle, the Board shall determine the
appropriateness of each bargaining unit.

(2) If there is not a dispute about the appropriateness of the bargaining
unit, the Board shall issue an order defining an appropriate bargaining unit.

(3) If there is a dispute about the appropriateness of the bargaining unit,
the Board shall:

(i) Conduct a public hearing, receiving written and oral testimony;
and

(ii) Issue an order defining the appropriate bargaining unit.

(c)] There may be no more than four bargaining units at each community college
including:

(1) One unit reserved for full–time faculty;

(2) One unit reserved for part–time faculty; and

(3) Two units reserved for eligible nonexempt employees, as defined in the
federal Fair Labor Standards Act.

– 18 –

PAGE 19
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

[(d) The Board may not require the bargaining units at a community college to
conform to the requirements of this section if the bargaining units were in existence before
2022.]September 1,

16–708.

[A(a) public employer has the right to:

(1) Determine how the statutory mandate and goals of the community
college, including the functions and programs of the community college, its overall budget,
and its organizational structure, are to be carried out; and

(2) Direct college personnel.

(b) A public employee has the right to:

(1) Organize;

(2) Form, join, or assist any employee organization;

(3) Bargain collectively through an exclusive representative;

(4) Engage in other lawful concerted activity for the purpose of collective
bargaining; and

(5) Refrain from engaging in the activities listed under this subsection.

(c)] A public employee or group of public employees has the right at any time to:

(1) Present a grievance arising under the terms of the agreement to the
public employer; and

(2) Have the grievance adjusted without the intervention of the exclusive
representative.

[(d)] (B) The exclusive representative has the right to be present during any
meeting involving the presentation or adjustment of a grievance.

[(e)] (C) (1) A public employer shall hear a grievance and participate in the
adjustment of the grievance.

(2) The adjustment of a grievance may not be inconsistent with the terms
of the collective bargaining agreement then in effect.

(3) A public employer shall give prompt notice of any adjustment of a
grievance to the exclusive representative.

– 19 –

PAGE 20
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(f) A public employer and an employee organization may not interfere with,
intimidate, restrain, coerce, or discriminate against a public employee because the
section.]employee exercises rights granted under this

Article – Health – General

15–903.

[State Labor] PUBLIC(c) (2) All elections shall be conducted by the
EMPLOYEE [TitleRelations Board and subject to the requirements and limitations of 3,
Article] TITLE 21, SUBTITLE 4Subtitle 4 of the State Personnel and Pensions OF THE
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

[State Labor] PUBLIC EMPLOYEE(3) The Relations Board may not
conduct an election for an exclusive representative if an election or certification of an
exclusive representative has taken place within the preceding 2 years.

Article – State Government

TITLE 21. PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RELATIONS.

SUBTITLE 1. DEFINITIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.

21–101.

(A) IN THIS TITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “BOARD” PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RELATIONS BOARD.MEANS THE

~~(C)~~ ~~“CONFIDENTIAL~~ ~~EMPLOYEE”~~ ~~INCLUDES~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WHOSE~~
~~EMPLOYMENT~~ ~~RESPONSIBILITIES~~ ~~REQUIRE~~ ~~KNOWLEDGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~
~~EMPLOYER’S~~ ~~POSTURE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COLLECTIVE~~ ~~NEGOTIATION~~ ~~PROCESS~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~
~~WHO:~~~~EMPLOYEE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~ACTS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONFIDENTIAL~~ ~~CAPACITY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FORMULATES~~ ~~AND~~
~~EMPLOYER’S~~~~EFFECTUATES~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~POLICIES~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~RELATE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~COLLECTIVE~~
~~EMPLOYEES;~~~~BARGAINING~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~OR~~

~~(2)~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~ACCESS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONFIDENTIAL~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~GENERALLY~~
~~AVAILABLE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYEES~~ ~~REGARDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FORMULATION~~ ~~AND~~
~~EMPLOYER’S~~~~EFFECTUATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~POLICIES~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~RELATE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~COLLECTIVE~~
~~BARGAINING.~~

– 20 –

PAGE 21
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

~~(D)~~ (C) UNLESS OTHERWISE, “DAY”SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED MEANS A
DAY.CALENDAR

~~(E)~~ (D) “EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION” MEANS A LABOR ORGANIZATION IN
WHICH PUBLIC EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATE AND THAT HAS AS ONE OF ITS PRIMARY
EMPLOYEES.PURPOSES REPRESENTING PUBLIC

~~(F)~~ (E) “EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE” MEANS AN EMPLOYEE
BOARDORGANIZATION THAT HAS BEEN CERTIFIED BY THE AS AN EXCLUSIVE
SUBTITLE 4 TITLE.REPRESENTATIVE UNDER OF THIS

~~(G)~~ (F) “LOCKOUT” TO:MEANS ACTION TAKEN BY A PUBLIC EMPLOYER

(1) EMPLOYEES’INTERRUPT OR PREVENT THE CONTINUITY OF THE
USUAL WORK FOR THE PURPOSE AND WITH THE INTENT OF COERCING THE
TITLE;EMPLOYEES INTO RELINQUISHING RIGHTS GUARANTEED BY THIS OR

(2) BRING ECONOMIC PRESSURE ON EMPLOYEES FOR THE PURPOSE
OF SECURING THE AGREEMENT OF THEIR EXECUTIVE REPRESENTATIVE TO
TERMS.COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

~~(H)~~ (G) “PUBLIC EMPLOYEE” WHO:MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL

~~(1)~~ HOLDS A POSITION BY APPOINTMENT OR EMPLOYMENT IN THE
SERVICE OF A PUBLIC EMPLOYER WITH COLLECTIVE BARGAINING RIGHTS UNDER
TITLE 3 STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE TITLE 6, SUBTITLEOF THE AND OR
4 5 TITLE 16, SUBTITLE 7 EDUCATION ARTICLE;OR OR OF THE ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~EMPLOYEE.~~~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONFIDENTIAL~~

~~(H)~~ ~~(I)~~ (H) “PUBLIC EMPLOYER” MEANS:

(1) STATE, UNIT, DEPARTMENT,THE INCLUDING ANY OR
STATE;INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE

(2) § 16–702(B)A COMMUNITY COLLEGE LISTED UNDER OF THE
EDUCATION ARTICLE; AND

(3) BALTIMORE CITYA COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION OR THE
BOARD SCHOOL COMMISSIONERS.OF

~~(I)~~ ~~“PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYEE”~~ ~~WHO:~~~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~

– 21 –

PAGE 22
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(1)~~ ~~HOLDS~~ ~~A~~ ~~POSITION~~ ~~BY~~ ~~APPOINTMENT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~EMPLOYMENT~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~SERVICE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYER~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~COLLECTIVE~~ ~~BARGAINING~~ ~~RIGHTS~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~TITLE~~ ~~3~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~PERSONNEL~~ ~~PENSIONS~~ ~~ARTICLE,~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~6,~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~4~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~
~~5~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~ARTICLE~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~16,~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~7~~ ~~EDUCATION~~~~OR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ARTICLE;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~EMPLOYEE.~~~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONFIDENTIAL~~

~~(J)~~ (I)(1) “SHOWING FORM”OF INTEREST MEANS A WRITTEN STATEMENT
FROM A PUBLIC EMPLOYEE WHO WISHES TO BE REPRESENTED BY A PETITIONING
BARGAINING.EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF COLLECTIVE

(2) “SHOWING FORM” INCLUDES:OF INTEREST

(I) CARD;A UNION AUTHORIZATION OR

(II) CARD.A UNION MEMBERSHIP

~~(K)~~ ~~“STRIKE”~~ ~~INDUCE,~~~~MEANS~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~CONCERTED~~ ~~WORK~~ ~~STOPPAGE~~ ~~TO~~
~~INFLUENCE,~~ ~~COERCE,~~ ~~WAGES,~~ ~~HOURS,~~~~OR~~ ~~ENFORCE~~ ~~DEMANDS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~CHANGE~~ ~~IN~~
~~TERMS,~~ ~~INCLUDING:~~~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~CONDITIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EMPLOYMENT~~

~~(1)~~ ~~DUTY;~~~~REFUSAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~FOR~~

~~(2)~~ ~~POSITION;~~~~WILLFUL~~ ~~ABSENCE~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~A~~

~~(3)~~ ~~WORK;~~~~SLOWDOWN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OR~~

~~(4)~~ ~~ABSTINENCE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHOLE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PART~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROPER~~
~~EMPLOYMENT.~~~~PERFORMANCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DUTIES~~ ~~OF~~

(J) (1) “STRIKE” MEANS ANY CONCERTED ACTION TO IMPEDE THE FULL
INDUCE,AND PROPER PERFORMANCE OF EMPLOYMENT DUTIES IN ORDER TO
INFLUENCE, COERCE, WAGES, HOURS,OR ENFORCE DEMANDS FOR A CHANGE IN
TERMS, EMPLOYMENT.OR OTHER CONDITIONS OF

(2) “STRIKE” PARTIAL:INCLUDES A TOTAL OR

(I) WORK;REFUSAL OR FAILURE TO REPORT TO

(II) DUTIES;REFUSAL OR FAILURE TO PERFORM EMPLOYMENT

(III) WORK;WITHDRAWAL FROM

– 22 –

PAGE 23
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(IV) STOPPAGE;WORK OR

(V) SLOWDOWN.WORK

21–102.

(A) IT GENERAL ASSEMBLYIS THE INTENT OF THE THAT IT IS THE PUBLIC
STATEPOLICY OF THE TO ENCOURAGE AND PROTECT THE EXERCISE BY PUBLIC
ASSOCIATION,SECTOR EMPLOYEES OF THE FULL FREEDOM OF
SELF–ORGANIZATION, AND DESIGNATION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THEIR OWN
CHOOSING, FOR THE PURPOSE OF NEGOTIATING THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF
PROTECTION.THEIR EMPLOYMENT OR OTHER MUTUAL AID OR

(B) FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE RIGHTS DESCRIBED UNDER
(A)SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION AND TO PROMOTE LABOR PEACE AND THE
ORDERLY AND CONSTRUCTIVE RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN ALL PUBLIC EMPLOYERS
EMPLOYEES, GENERAL ASSEMBLYAND THEIR THE HAS DETERMINED THAT THE
BY:OVERALL POLICY MAY BEST BE ACCOMPLISHED

(1) GRANTING TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES THE RIGHT TO ORGANIZE AND
REPRESENTATIVES;CHOOSE FREELY THEIR

(2) REQUIRING PUBLIC EMPLOYERS TO NEGOTIATE AND BARGAIN
WITH EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS REPRESENTING PUBLIC EMPLOYEES AND TO
BARGAINING;ENTER INTO WRITTEN AGREEMENTS EVIDENCING THE RESULT OF THE
AND

(3) ESTABLISHING PROCEDURES TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROTECTION
EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYERS,OF THE RIGHTS OF PUBLIC THE PUBLIC AND THE PUBLIC
LARGE.AT

(C) THE STATELAW OF THE WITH RESPECT TO THE LABOR RIGHTS OF
PUBLIC SECTOR EMPLOYEES IS INTENDED TO FOLLOW THE RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT.UNDER THE FEDERAL

21–103.

DECISIONS NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARDOF THE FEDERAL ~~SHALL~~
TITLE.MAY BE AFFORDED PERSUASIVE WEIGHT IN ANY INTERPRETATION OF THIS

SUBTITLE 2. RIGHTS DUTIES EMPLOYEES, PUBLIC EMPLOYERS,AND OF AND
EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVES.

21–201.
– 23 –

PAGE 24
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) EMPLOYEES TO:OF A PUBLIC EMPLOYER HAVE THE RIGHT

(1) ENGAGE IN CONCERTED ACTIVITIES FOR THE PURPOSES OF
PROTECTION;MUTUAL AID OR AND

(2) REFRAIN FROM ANY OR ALL ACTIVITIES DESCRIBED UNDER ITEM
(1) SUBSECTION.OF THIS

(B) PUBLIC TO:EMPLOYEES HAVE THE RIGHT

(1) FORM, IN,JOIN AND PARTICIPATE OR TO REFRAIN FROM
FORMING, JOINING, IN,OR PARTICIPATING ANY EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION OF
CHOOSING;THEIR OWN

(2) ORGANIZATIONS,BE REPRESENTED BY EMPLOYEE TO NEGOTIATE
COLLECTIVELY WITH THEIR PUBLIC EMPLOYERS IN THE DETERMINATION OF THEIR
EMPLOYMENT,TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF
THEREUNDER;GRIEVANCES ARISING AND

(3) BE FAIRLY REPRESENTED BY THEIR EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE, ANY, BARGAINING.IF IN COLLECTIVE

(C) EXCEPT (D) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS AN
REASONABLE:EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION MAY ESTABLISH

(1) JOIN;RESTRICTIONS AS TO WHO MAY AND

(2) PROVISIONS FOR THE DISMISSAL OF INDIVIDUALS FROM
MEMBERSHIP.

(D) AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION MAY NOT ESTABLISH RESTRICTIONS AND
(C)PROVISIONS UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION THAT DISCRIMINATE WITH
OF:REGARD TO THE TERMS OR CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP BECAUSE

(1) AGE;

(2) ANCESTRY;

(3) COLOR;

(4) CREED;

(5) IDENTITY;GENDER

– 24 –

PAGE 25
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(6) STATUS;MARITAL

(7) DISABILITY;MENTAL OR PHYSICAL

(8) ORIGIN;NATIONAL

(9) RACE;

(10) AFFILIATION, BELIEF, OPINION;RELIGIOUS OR

(11) SEX; OR

(12) ORIENTATION.SEXUAL

21–202.

A PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL EXTEND TO AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE THE
TO:RIGHT

(1) IN:REPRESENT PUBLIC EMPLOYEES

(I) NEGOTIATIONS NOTWITHSTANDING THE EXISTENCE OF AN
AGREEMENT WITH AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION THAT IS NO LONGER CERTIFIED OR
RECOGNIZED; AND

(II) GRIEVANCES;THE SETTLEMENT OF

(2) (I) REQUEST,ON INFORMATION FROM A PUBLIC EMPLOYER
RELEVANT TO THE ADMINISTRATION AND NEGOTIATION OF AN AGREEMENT OR THE
ORGANIZATION’SPROPER PERFORMANCE OF THE EMPLOYEE DUTIES AS THE
EMPLOYEES’ REPRESENTATIVE;PUBLIC AND

(II) (I)HAVE THE INFORMATION REQUESTED UNDER ITEM OF
PRACTICABLE, 30THIS ITEM MADE AVAILABLE AS SOON AS BUT NOT LATER THAN
REQUEST;DAYS AFTER THE PUBLIC EMPLOYER RECEIVES THE AND

(3) OFFICIALS,COMMUNICATE WITH ITS MEMBERS AND ELECTED IN
DISCRETION,A MANNER AND AT TIMES AT ITS CONCERNING ISSUES RELEVANT TO
AGREEMENT.THE ADMINISTRATION AND NEGOTIATION OF AN

21–203.

– 25 –

PAGE 26
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) ON WRITTEN REQUEST OF AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE FOR EACH
EMPLOYEE IN THE BARGAINING UNIT REPRESENTED BY THE EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE, EMPLOYER, APPROPRIATE,THE PUBLIC AS SHALL PROVIDE THE
EMPLOYEE’S:EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE WITH THE

(1) NAME;

(2) CLASSIFICATION;POSITION

(3) UNIT;

(4) HOME AND WORK SITE ADDRESSES WHERE THE EMPLOYEE
UNITED STATES MAIL;RECEIVES INTEROFFICE OR

(5) NUMBERS;HOME AND WORK SITE TELEPHONE

(6) E–MAIL ADDRESS;WORK AND

(7) NUMBER.POSITION IDENTIFICATION

(B) THE EMPLOYER, APPROPRIATE,PUBLIC AS SHALL PROVIDE THE
EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE WITH THE REQUESTED INFORMATION IN A
FORMAT.SEARCHABLE AND ANALYZABLE ELECTRONIC

(C) NAMES BOARDOR LISTS OF EMPLOYEES PROVIDED TO THE IN
CONNECTION WITH AN ELECTION UNDER THIS TITLE ARE NOT SUBJECT TO
TITLE 4 GENERAL PROVISIONSDISCLOSURE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE.

(D) (1) EXCEPT (2) (3)AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS
SUBSECTION, AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE SHALL CONSIDER THE
INFORMATION THAT IT RECEIVES UNDER THIS SECTION AS CONFIDENTIAL AND MAY
PERSON.NOT RELEASE THE INFORMATION TO ANY

(2) AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE MAY AUTHORIZE THIRD PARTY
SECTION,CONTRACTORS TO USE THE INFORMATION THAT IT RECEIVES UNDER THIS
REPRESENTATIVE,AS DIRECTED BY THE EXCLUSIVE TO CARRY OUT THE EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE’S TITLE.STATUTORY DUTIES UNDER THIS

(3) AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OR AN AUTHORIZED THIRD
PARTY CONTRACTOR MAY USE THE INFORMATION THAT IT RECEIVES UNDER THIS
SECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF MAINTAINING OR INCREASING EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATION.MEMBERSHIP IN AN EMPLOYEE

– 26 –

PAGE 27
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(4) ON EMPLOYEE,WRITTEN REQUEST OF AN AN EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE SHALL WITHHOLD FURTHER COMMUNICATION WITH THE
EMPLOYEE UNLESS OTHERWISE REQUIRED BY LAW OR THE WRITTEN REQUEST IS
EMPLOYEE.REVOKED BY THE

21–204.

(A) ~~A~~ EXCEPT (B) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS A PUBLIC
TO:EMPLOYER HAS THE RIGHT

(1) DETERMINE HOW THE STATUTORY MANDATE AND GOALS OF THE
EMPLOYER,PUBLIC INCLUDING THE FUNCTIONS AND PROGRAMS OF THE PUBLIC
EMPLOYER, BUDGET, STRUCTURE,ITS OVERALL AND ITS ORGANIZATIONAL ARE TO
OUT;BE CARRIED AND

(2) EMPLOYER.DIRECT EMPLOYEES OF THE PUBLIC

(B) THE STATE, EMPLOYEES,THROUGH ITS APPROPRIATE OFFICERS AND
TO:HAS THE RIGHT

(1) (I) MISSION, BUDGET, ORGANIZATION,DETERMINE THE
NUMBERS, ASSIGNED, PROJECTS,TYPES AND GRADES OF EMPLOYEES THE WORK
DUTY, METHODS, MEANS,TOURS OF AND PERSONNEL BY WHICH ITS OPERATIONS
CONDUCTED, NEEDED, PRACTICES,ARE TO BE TECHNOLOGY INTERNAL SECURITY
FACILITIES;AND RELOCATION OF ITS AND

(II) MAINTAIN AND IMPROVE THE EFFICIENCY AND
OPERATIONS;EFFECTIVENESS OF GOVERNMENTAL

(2) THE:DETERMINE

(I) RENDERED,SERVICES TO BE OPERATIONS TO BE
PERFORMED, USED;AND TECHNOLOGY TO BE AND

(II) METHODS, PROCESSES, MEANS,OVERALL AND CLASSES OF
WORK OR PERSONNEL BY WHICH GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS ARE TO BE
CONDUCTED;

(3) HIRE, DIRECT, SUPERVISE, EMPLOYEES;AND ASSIGN

(4) (I) PROMOTE, DEMOTE, DISCIPLINE, DISCHARGE, RETAIN, AND
EMPLOYEES;LAY OFF AND

– 27 –

PAGE 28
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) FUNDS,TERMINATE EMPLOYMENT BECAUSE OF LACK OF
WORK,LACK OF UNDER CONDITIONS WHERE THE EMPLOYER DETERMINES
NONPRODUCTIVE,CONTINUED WORK WOULD BE INEFFICIENT OR OR FOR OTHER
REASONS;LEGITIMATE

(5) SET THE QUALIFICATIONS OF EMPLOYEES FOR APPOINTMENT AND
PROMOTION, CONDUCT;AND SET STANDARDS OF

(6) STATE DEPARTMENT RULES, REGULATIONS,ADOPT OR OR
PROCEDURES;

(7) PROVIDE A SYSTEM OF MERIT EMPLOYMENT ACCORDING TO THE
EFFICIENCY;STANDARD OF BUSINESS AND

(8) TAKE ACTIONS NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFIED IN THIS SECTION TO
EMPLOYER.CARRY OUT THE MISSION OF THE

21–205.

(A) A LOCKOUT.PUBLIC EMPLOYER IS PROHIBITED FROM ENGAGING IN A

(B) PUBLIC STRIKE.EMPLOYEES ARE PROHIBITED FROM ENGAGING IN A

(C) A PUBLIC EMPLOYER OR AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION MAY NOT
WITH, INTIMIDATE, RESTRAIN, COERCE,INTERFERE OR DISCRIMINATE AGAINST A
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE BECAUSE THE PUBLIC EMPLOYEE EXERCISES RIGHTS GRANTED
TITLE.UNDER THIS

21–206.

(A) A OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS,PUBLIC EMPLOYER AND ITS OR
REPRESENTATIVES ARE PROHIBITED FROM ENGAGING IN ANY UNFAIR LABOR
PRACTICE, INCLUDING:

(1) WITH, RESTRAINING,INTERFERING OR COERCING EMPLOYEES IN
TITLE;THE EXERCISE OF THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THIS

(2) DOMINATING, WITH,INTERFERING CONTRIBUTING FINANCIAL OR
TO, FORMATION, EXISTENCE,OTHER SUPPORT OR ASSISTING IN THE OR
ORGANIZATION;ADMINISTRATION OF ANY EMPLOYEE

(3) GRANTING ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE TO EMPLOYEES TO ATTEND
EMPLOYER SPONSORED OR SUPPORTED MEETINGS OR EVENTS RELATING TO AN

– 28 –

PAGE 29
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

SUBTITLE 4 TITLE,ELECTION UNDER OF THIS UNLESS THE PUBLIC EMPLOYER
GRANTS EMPLOYEES AT LEAST THE SAME AMOUNT OF ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE TO
ATTEND LABOR ORGANIZATION SPONSORED OR SUPPORTED MEETINGS OR
MEETINGS;EMPLOYEE

(4) HIRING, TENURE,DISCRIMINATING IN OR ANY TERM OR
CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT TO ENCOURAGE OR DISCOURAGE MEMBERSHIP IN AN
ORGANIZATION;EMPLOYEE

(5) DISCHARGING OR DISCRIMINATING AGAINST AN EMPLOYEE
AFFIDAVIT, PETITION, COMPLAINT,BECAUSE OF THE SIGNING OR FILING OF AN OR
OR GIVING INFORMATION OR TESTIMONY IN CONNECTION WITH MATTERS UNDER
TITLE;THIS

(6) FAILING TO PROVIDE ALL EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED
BOARDIN AN ELECTION THE SAME RIGHTS OF ACCESS AS REQUIRED BY THE
REGULATION;THROUGH

(7) ACTIVITIES;ENGAGING IN SURVEILLANCE OF UNION

(8) FAITH;REFUSING TO BARGAIN IN GOOD

(9) DEADLINE,FAILING TO MEET AN ESTABLISHED NEGOTIATION
UNLESS A WRITTEN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PUBLIC EMPLOYER AND THE
OTHERWISE;EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE PROVIDES

(10) LOCKOUT;ENGAGING IN A OR

(11) WITH,SPENDING PUBLIC MONEY TO CONTRACT USING PUBLIC
WITH,RESOURCES TO CONTRACT OR PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO AN INDIVIDUAL OR
GROUP FOR A NEGATIVE CAMPAIGN AGAINST EFFORTS BY EMPLOYEES OF A PUBLIC
TO:EMPLOYER OR AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION

(I) RIGHTS;GAIN OR RETAIN COLLECTIVE BARGAINING OR

(II) CERTIFY AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION AS AN EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE.

(B) EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS AND THEIR AGENTS OR REPRESENTATIVES
PRACTICE, INCLUDING:ARE PROHIBITED FROM ENGAGING IN ANY UNFAIR LABOR

(1) WITH, RESTRAINING,INTERFERING OR COERCING EMPLOYEES IN
TITLE;THE EXERCISE OF THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THIS

– 29 –

PAGE 30
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) CAUSING OR ATTEMPTING TO CAUSE A PUBLIC EMPLOYER TO
HIRING, TENURE,DISCRIMINATE IN OR ANY TERM OR CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT
ORGANIZATION;TO ENCOURAGE OR DISCOURAGE MEMBERSHIP IN AN EMPLOYEE

(3) IN, INDUCING,ENGAGING OR ENCOURAGING ANY PERSON TO
STRIKE, ~~§~~ ~~21–205~~ ~~SUBTITLE;~~ENGAGE IN A ~~AS~~ ~~DEFINED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

(4) STATEINTERFERING WITH THE STATUTORY DUTIES OF THE OR A
EMPLOYER;PUBLIC

(5) FAITH;REFUSING TO BARGAIN IN GOOD OR

(6) NOT FAIRLY REPRESENTING EMPLOYEES IN COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING OR IN ANY OTHER MATTER IN WHICH THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION
REPRESENTATION.HAS THE DUTY OF FAIR

21–207.

(A) EACH EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE HAS THE RIGHT TO COMMUNICATE
REPRESENTS.WITH THE EMPLOYEES THAT IT

(B) (1) PUBLIC EMPLOYERS SHALL ALLOW AN EXCLUSIVE
TO:REPRESENTATIVE

(I) MEET WITH A NEW EMPLOYEE IN A BARGAINING UNIT
REPRESENTED BY THE EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE WITHIN THE FIRST FULL PAY
EMPLOYEE’S DATE;PERIOD OF THE NEW START OR

(II) ATTEND AND PARTICIPATE IN A NEW EMPLOYEE PROGRAM
THAT INCLUDES ONE OR MORE EMPLOYEES WHO ARE IN A BARGAINING UNIT
REPRESENTATIVE.REPRESENTED BY THE EXCLUSIVE

(2) THE (1)(II)NEW EMPLOYEE PROGRAM DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH
ORIENTATION, TRAINING,OF THIS SUBSECTION MAY BE A NEW EMPLOYEE OR OTHER
PROGRAM THAT THE PUBLIC EMPLOYER AND AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE
TITLE 6, SUBTITLE 4 5 EDUCATIONNEGOTIATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OR OF THE
ARTICLE, TITLE 16, SUBTITLE 7 EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLE 3OF THE OR OF THE
STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE.AND

(3) EXCEPT (5) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
30THE EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE SHALL BE ALLOWED AT LEAST MINUTES TO
MEET WITH THE NEW EMPLOYEE OR TO COLLECTIVELY ADDRESS ALL NEW
PROGRAM.EMPLOYEES IN ATTENDANCE DURING A NEW EMPLOYEE

– 30 –

PAGE 31
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(4) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, A MEETING BETWEEN THE NEW EMPLOYEE AND THE EXCLUSIVE
PERSON.REPRESENTATIVE SHALL BE IN

(II) AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE MAY CHOOSE TO MEET
WITH A NEW EMPLOYEE BY VIDEO OR SIMILAR TECHNOLOGY IF PUBLIC HEALTH
REMOTELY.CONCERNS NECESSITATE THAT A MEETING BE CONDUCTED

(5) A PUBLIC EMPLOYER AND AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE MAY
30NEGOTIATE A PERIOD OF TIME THAT IS MORE THAN MINUTES IN ACCORDANCE
TITLE 6, SUBTITLE 4 5 EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLE 16, SUBTITLEWITH OR OF THE
7 EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLE 3 STATE PERSONNELOF THE OR OF THE AND
PENSIONS ARTICLE.

(6) A EMPLOYER:PUBLIC

(I) SHALL ENCOURAGE AN EMPLOYEE TO MEET WITH THE
EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OR ATTEND THE PORTION OF A NEW EMPLOYEE
PROGRAM DESIGNATED FOR AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE TO ADDRESS NEW
EMPLOYEES; AND

(II) MAY NOT REQUIRE AN EMPLOYEE TO MEET WITH AN
EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OR ATTEND THE PORTION OF A NEW EMPLOYEE
PROGRAM DESIGNATED FOR AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE TO ADDRESS NEW
ATTENDING.EMPLOYEES IF THE EMPLOYEE OBJECTS TO

(C) (1) EXCEPT (2)AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
(3) SUBSECTION,AND SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL
10 DAYS’PROVIDE THE EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE AT LEAST NOTICE OF THE
START DATE OF A NEW EMPLOYEE IN A BARGAINING UNIT REPRESENTED BY THE
REPRESENTATIVE.EXCLUSIVE

(2) A PUBLIC EMPLOYER MAY PROVIDE THE EXCLUSIVE
10 DAYS’REPRESENTATIVE WITH LESS THAN NOTICE IF THERE IS AN URGENT NEED
FORESEEABLE.CRITICAL TO THE EMPLOYER THAT WAS NOT REASONABLY

(3) THE (1)NOTICE REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SHALL:SUBSECTION

(I) BE PROVIDED ELECTRONICALLY TO THE LOCAL PRESIDENT
5 EMPLOYEE’SOR EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE DESIGNEE WITHIN DAYS OF THE
CHECK–IN;FIRST

– 31 –

PAGE 32
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) (III) PARAGRAPH,EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN ITEM OF THIS
EMPLOYEE’S NAME, UNIT,INCLUDE THE NEW AND ALL EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION
NUMBERS, WORKDAY NUMBERS;INCLUDING

(III) EMPLOYEE’S SOCIAL SECURITYEXCLUDE THE NEW
NUMBER; AND

(IV) BE CONSIDERED CONFIDENTIAL BY AN EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE.

(4) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE MAY NOT DISCLOSE THE
NOTICE.INFORMATION IN A

(II) THE ~~EXECUTIVE~~ EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE MAY
THIRD–PARTY NOTICE,AUTHORIZE A CONTRACTOR TO USE THE INFORMATION IN A
REPRESENTATIVE,AS DIRECTED BY THE EXCLUSIVE TO FULFILL THE EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE’S DUTIES.STATUTORY

21–208.

AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION CERTIFIED AS THE EXCLUSIVE
SHALL:REPRESENTATIVE

(1) SERVE AS THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE BARGAINING AGENT FOR ALL
UNIT;EMPLOYEES IN THE BARGAINING

(2) REPRESENT FAIRLY AND WITHOUT DISCRIMINATION ALL
UNIT,EMPLOYEES IN THE BARGAINING WHETHER OR NOT THE EMPLOYEES ARE
MEMBERS OF THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION OR ARE PAYING DUES OR OTHER
AFFAIRS;CONTRIBUTIONS TO IT OR PARTICIPATING IN ITS AND

(3) BOARDPROMPTLY FILE WITH THE ALL CHANGES AND
ORGANIZATION’S DOCUMENTS.AMENDMENTS TO THE GOVERNING

21–209.

(A) AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION IS ENTITLED TO MEMBERSHIP DUES
DEDUCTION, OF:ON PRESENTATION BY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION

(1) CARDS;DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION

(2) APPLICATION;ELECTRONIC MEMBERSHIP OR

– 32 –

PAGE 33
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(3) OTHER METHOD BY WHICH AN EMPLOYEE HAS MANIFESTED
DEDUCTION.ASSENT FOR MEMBERSHIP DUES

(B) (1) A PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL COMMENCE MAKING DUES
PRACTICABLE, 30DEDUCTIONS AS SOON AS BUT NOT LATER THAN DAYS AFTER
(A) SECTION.RECEIVING THE PROOF PRESENTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

(2) A PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL TRANSMIT MEMBERSHIP DUES TO
30THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION WITHIN DAYS AFTER THE DEDUCTIONS ARE
MADE.

(3) A PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL ACCEPT AN AUTHORIZATION TO
DEDUCT FROM THE SALARY OF A PUBLIC EMPLOYEE AN AMOUNT FOR THE PAYMENT
§ 21–106 COMMERCIAL LAWOF DUES IN ANY FORMAT AUTHORIZED UNDER OF THE
ARTICLE.

(C) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO REQUIRE AN EMPLOYEE TO
ORGANIZATION.BECOME A MEMBER OF AN EMPLOYEE

(D) (1) THE RIGHT OF AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION TO MEMBERSHIP
UNTIL:DUES DEDUCTION SHALL REMAIN IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT

(I) AN EMPLOYEE REVOKES MEMBERSHIP IN ACCORDANCE
APPLICATION;WITH A COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT OR THE MEMBERSHIP

(II) THE EMPLOYEE CANCELS MEMBERSHIP DUES DEDUCTION
§ 2–403 STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE;UNDER OF THE AND OR

(III) (2) SUBSECTION,SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
EMPLOYER.EMPLOYEE IS NO LONGER EMPLOYED BY THE PUBLIC

(2) IF 1 YEAR,WITHIN A PERIOD OF THE EMPLOYEE IS EMPLOYED BY
THE SAME PUBLIC EMPLOYER IN A POSITION REPRESENTED BY THE SAME
REPRESENTATIVE,EXCLUSIVE THE RIGHT TO MEMBERSHIP DUES DEDUCTION
REINSTATED.SHALL BE AUTOMATICALLY

(E) IF THE EMPLOYEE WHO HAS CONSENTED TO DUES DEDUCTION IS
EMPLOYER’SEITHER REMOVED FROM A PUBLIC PAYROLL OR OTHERWISE PLACED
ABSENCE,ON AN INVOLUNTARY OR VOLUNTARY LEAVE OF WHETHER PAID OR
UNPAID, EMPLOYEE’STHE PUBLIC MEMBERSHIP DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION
SHALL:

(1) EFFECTIVE;REMAIN AND

– 33 –

PAGE 34
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) EMPLOYEE’SBE CONTINUED ON THE PUBLIC RETURN TO THE
ABSENCE.PAYROLL OR RESTORATION TO ACTIVE EMPLOYMENT FROM A LEAVE OF

(F) IF AN AUTHORIZATION FOR A PUBLIC EMPLOYER TO MAKE
JUNE 30, 2023:MEMBERSHIP DUES DEDUCTION WAS IN EFFECT ON

(1) THE RIGHT OF THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION TO MEMBERSHIP
DUES DEDUCTION SHALL CONTINUE UNLESS THE RIGHT IS TERMINATED UNDER
(D) SECTION;SUBSECTION OF THIS AND

(2) THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION MAY NOT BE REQUIRED TO
(A) SECTION.PRESENT NEW AUTHORIZATION UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

21–210.

(A) A OFFICERS,PUBLIC EMPLOYER OR ITS OR AN AGENT OF THE PUBLIC
EMPLOYER, MONEY, RESOURCES,MAY NOT SPEND PUBLIC USE PUBLIC OR PROVIDE
ASSISTANCE TO AN INDIVIDUAL OR GROUP FOR A NEGATIVE CAMPAIGN AGAINST
EFFORTS BY EMPLOYEES OF A PUBLIC EMPLOYER OR AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION
TO:

(1) RIGHTS;GAIN OR RETAIN COLLECTIVE BARGAINING OR

(2) CERTIFY AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION AS AN EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE.

(B) (1) WITHIN 7 DAYS AFTER A VALID ELECTION HAS BEEN SCHEDULED
SUBTITLE 4 TITLE,UNDER OF THIS THE PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL ALLOW PUBLIC
EMPLOYER’SEMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS TO ACCESS THE
FACILITIES, GROUNDS, ROOMS, BOARDS,PROPERTY AND INCLUDING BULLETIN
MAIL,INTEROFFICE AND OTHER COMMON AREAS FOR CAMPAIGN ACTIVITIES FOR
ELECTION.THE

(2) THE NOT:PUBLIC EMPLOYER MAY

(I) LIMIT THE AMOUNT OF TIME A PUBLIC EMPLOYEE HAS
EMPLOYER’SACCESS TO THE PUBLIC PROPERTY AND FACILITIES DURING AN
SECTION;ELECTION UNDER THIS OR

(II) ALTER OR REVISE EXISTING RULES OR REGULATIONS TO
UNFAIRLY LIMIT OR PROHIBIT PUBLIC EMPLOYEES OR EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS
TITLE.FROM EXERCISING THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THIS

– 34 –

PAGE 35
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(3) THIS SUBSECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO ALLOW CAMPAIGN
EMPLOYER’S OPERATIONS.ACTIVITIES TO INTERFERE WITH A PUBLIC

SUBTITLE 3. PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RELATIONS BOARD.

21–301.

THERE PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RELATIONS BOARDIS A ESTABLISHED AS AN
STATE GOVERNMENT.INDEPENDENT UNIT OF

21–302.

(A) THE BOARD MEMBERS:CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING FIVE

(1) GOVERNORA CHAIR APPOINTED BY THE WITH THE ADVICE AND
SENATE, PUBLIC;CONSENT OF THE REPRESENTING THE

(2) TWO MEMBERS CHOSEN FROM A LIST OF CANDIDATES SUBMITTED
REPRESENTATIVE, GOVERNORBY EACH EXCLUSIVE APPOINTED BY THE WITH DUE
REGARD FOR ANY CANDIDATES WHO HAVE MAJORITY OR PLURALITY SUPPORT
REPRESENTATIVES,FROM EXCLUSIVE WITH THE ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE
SENATE; AND

(3) TWO MEMBERS CHOSEN FROM A LIST OF CANDIDATES SUBMITTED
EMPLOYERS, GOVERNORBY PUBLIC APPOINTED BY THE WITH THE ADVICE AND
SENATE.CONSENT OF THE

(B) EACH BOARD:MEMBER OF THE

(1) LAW,MUST HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF AND EXPERIENCE WITH LABOR
MEDIATION, NEGOTIATIONS;LABOR OR LABOR

(2) EMPLOYER,MAY NOT BE OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES OF A PUBLIC
ORGANIZATION;OR OF AN EMPLOYEE AND

(3) JUDGMENT.MUST BE KNOWN FOR OBJECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT

(C) BEFORE OFFICE,TAKING EACH MEMBER SHALL TAKE THE OATH
ARTICLE I, § 9 MARYLAND CONSTITUTION.REQUIRED BY OF THE

(D) (1) THE 6 YEARS.TERM OF A MEMBER IS

(2) THE TERMS OF MEMBERS ARE STAGGERED AS REQUIRED BY THE
BOARD JULY 1, 2023.TERMS PROVIDED FOR MEMBERS OF THE ON

– 35 –

PAGE 36
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) A VACANCY SHALL BE FILLED FOR AN UNEXPIRED TERM IN THE
APPOINTMENT.SAME MANNER AS AN ORIGINAL

(4) AT TERM,THE END OF A A MEMBER CONTINUES TO SERVE UNTIL
QUALIFIES.A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND

(5) A MEMBER WHO IS APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN SERVES
ONLY FOR THE REST OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND
QUALIFIES.

(E) THE GOVERNOR MAY REMOVE A MEMBER ONLY FOR INCOMPETENCE OR
MISCONDUCT.

(F) IN BOARD, GOVERNORMAKING APPOINTMENTS TO THE THE SHALL
ENSURE, PRACTICABLE,TO THE EXTENT THAT THE RATIO OF MALE TO FEMALE
BOARDMEMBERS AND THE RACIAL MAKEUP OF THE IS REFLECTIVE OF THE
STATE.GENERAL POPULATION OF THE

21–303.

(A) (1) A MAJORITY OF THE VOTING MEMBERS SHALL CONSTITUTE A
FOR:QUORUM

(I) BUSINESS;THE TRANSACTION OF ANY OR

(II) THE EXERCISE OF ANY POWER OR THE PERFORMANCE OF
LAW.ANY DUTY AUTHORIZED OR IMPOSED BY

(2) FORMAL BOARDACTION MAY NOT BE TAKEN BY THE WITHOUT
BOARD.THE APPROVAL OF A MAJORITY OF THE VOTING MEMBERS OF THE

(B) THE BOARD MEETINGS,SHALL SET THE TIMES AND PLACES OF ITS BUT
MONTH.SHALL MEET AT LEAST ONCE PER

(C) (1) AN BOARD TO:APPOINTED MEMBER OF THE IS ENTITLED

(I) STATE BUDGET;THE COMPENSATION PROVIDED IN THE
AND

(II) STANDARDREIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

– 36 –

PAGE 37
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(2) THE BOARDCHAIR OF THE SHALL GIVE FULL TIME TO THE DUTIES
STATE BUDGET.OF CHAIR AND IS ENTITLED TO A SALARY AS PROVIDED IN THE

21–304.

(A) (1) THE BOARD EXECUTIVE DIRECTORSHALL APPOINT AN OF THE
BOARD.

(2) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR:

(I) IS RESPONSIBLE TO AND SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE
BOARD;

(II) MUST HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF AND EXPERIENCE WITH LABOR
ISSUES; AND

(III) STATEIS ENTITLED TO THE SALARY PROVIDED IN THE
BUDGET.

(B) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHALL PERFORM THE DUTIES THAT THE
BOARD ASSIGNS, INCLUDING:

(1) BOARD;OPERATING THE OFFICE OF THE AND

(2) BOARD.KEEPING THE OFFICIAL RECORDS OF THE

(C) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MAY HIRE ANY STAFF NECESSARY TO
TITLE.CARRY OUT THE PROVISIONS OF THIS

21–305.

(A) THE BOARD APPOINT:SHALL

(1) EXECUTIVE BRANCHA DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR LABOR
RELATIONS;

(2) RELATIONS;A DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PUBLIC SCHOOL LABOR
AND

(3) A DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PUBLIC HIGHER EDUCATION LABOR
RELATIONS.

(B) THE DIRECTORS:DEPUTY

– 37 –

PAGE 38
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) ARE RESPONSIBLE TO AND SERVE AT THE PLEASURE OF THE
BOARD;

(2) MUST HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF AND EXPERIENCE WITH LABOR
POSITIONS;ISSUES AND THE SUBJECT MATTER AREA ASSOCIATED WITH THEIR AND

(3) STATE BUDGET.ARE ENTITLED TO THE SALARY PROVIDED IN THE

21–306.

(A) THE BOARD IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ADMINISTERING AND ENFORCING
OF:PROVISIONS

(1) TITLE;THIS

(2) TITLE 6, ~~SUBTITLE~~ SUBTITLES 4 5 EDUCATION~~OR~~ AND OF THE
ARTICLE;

(3) TITLE 16, SUBTITLE 7 EDUCATION ARTICLE;OF THE AND

(4) TITLE 3 STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE.OF THE AND

(B) IN ADDITION TO ANY OTHER POWERS OR DUTIES PROVIDED FOR
TITLE, TITLE 6, SUBTITLE 4 5 EDUCATION ARTICLE,ELSEWHERE IN THIS OR OF THE
TITLE 16, SUBTITLE 7 EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLE 3 STATEOF THE AND OF THE
PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE, BOARD MAY:AND THE

(1) FOR, OF,ESTABLISH PROCEDURES SUPERVISE THE CONDUCT AND
REPRESENTATIVES;RESOLVE DISPUTES ABOUT ELECTIONS FOR EXCLUSIVE

(2) ESTABLISH PROCEDURES FOR AND RESOLVE DISPUTES ABOUT
CLARIFICATION;PETITIONS FOR BARGAINING UNIT

(3) ESTABLISH PROCEDURES FOR AND RESOLVE DISPUTES ABOUT
PETITIONS AND ELECTIONS FOR DECERTIFICATION OF AN EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE;

(4) INVESTIGATE AND TAKE APPROPRIATE ACTION IN RESPONSE TO
PRACTICES, LOCKOUTS;COMPLAINTS OF UNFAIR LABOR INCLUDING STRIKES AND

(5) ESTABLISH PROCEDURES FOR AND RESOLVE DISPUTES ABOUT
SUBJECTS;THE NEGOTIABILITY OF BARGAINING

– 38 –

PAGE 39
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(6) ON APPLICATION BY AN ~~EXCLUSIVE~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ EMPLOYEE
EMPLOYER,ORGANIZATION OR PUBLIC DETERMINE THAT THE APPLICANT SHALL BE
DESIGNATED AS A JOINT PUBLIC EMPLOYER OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES IN AN
EMPLOYER–EMPLOYEE BARGAINING UNIT DETERMINED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
SUBTITLE 4 OF THIS TITLE WHEN SUCH DETERMINATION WOULD BEST EFFECTUATE
SUBTITLE;THE PURPOSES OF THIS AND

(7) ~~§§~~ ~~6–408,~~ ~~6–510,~~ ~~16–711~~RESOLVE MATTERS AS PROVIDED IN ~~AND~~
§§ 6–406, 6–507, 16–707 EDUCATION ARTICLE.AND OF THE

(C) THE BOARD SHALL HAVE BROAD DISCRETION TO TAKE AND ORDER
REMEDIAL ACTIONS WHEN IT FINDS THAT A PARTY HAS COMMITTED AN UNFAIR
PRACTICE, RIGHT, PAY, STATUS,LABOR INCLUDING THE RESTORATION OF ANY OR
EMPLOYEES,BENEFIT LOST BY A PUBLIC EMPLOYEE OR GROUP OF PUBLIC DUE TO
TITLE.VIOLATIONS OF THIS

(D) TO SUBTITLE, BOARD MAY:ENFORCE THE PROVISIONS OF THIS THE

(1) SUBPOENAS;ISSUE AND

(2) AFFIRMATIONS, WITNESSES,ADMINISTER OATHS AND EXAMINE
EVIDENCE.AND RECEIVE

(E) (1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
BOARD REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES,THE SHALL ADOPT AND ENFORCE AND
TITLE.POLICIES TO CARRY OUT THIS

(2) THE BOARD REGULATION, GUIDELINE,MAY NOT ADOPT ANY OR
THAT:POLICY

(I) UNNECESSARILY DELAYS THE RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES
ELECTIONS, PRACTICES,OVER UNFAIR LABOR OR ANY OTHER MATTER UNDER THIS
TITLE; OR

(II) RESTRICTS OR WEAKENS THE PROTECTIONS PROVIDED TO
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS UNDER THIS TITLE OR UNDER
REGULATIONS.

21–307.

(A) (1) IF A PARTY HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH ENGAGING IN OR HAS
PRACTICE,ENGAGED IN AN UNFAIR LABOR THE APPROPRIATE DEPUTY DIRECTOR
CHARGE.SHALL INVESTIGATE THE

– 39 –

PAGE 40
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) IF BOARD, DIRECTOR’STHE THROUGH THE DEPUTY
INVESTIGATION, FINDS THAT PROBABLE CAUSE EXISTS TO SUPPORT THE CHARGE
PRACTICE, BOARD SHALL:OF AN UNFAIR LABOR THE

(I) ISSUE A COMPLAINT AGAINST THE PARTY STATING THE
CHARGES; AND

(II) 15 COMPLAINT,NOT LESS THAN DAYS AFTER ISSUING THE
BOARD OFFICEISSUE A NOTICE OF A HEARING BEFORE THE OR THE OF
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.

(B) THE BOARD (A)(2)(I)MAY NOT ISSUE A COMPLAINT UNDER SUBSECTION
6OF THIS SECTION IF THE UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICE OCCURRED MORE THAN
CHARGE.MONTHS BEFORE THE FILING OF THE

(C) (1) THE DEPUTY DIRECTORS SHALL ENDEAVOR AT ALL TIMES TO
COMPLAINTS.SEEK INFORMAL RESOLUTION OF CHARGES OR

(2) THE BOARD AND THE APPROPRIATE DEPUTY DIRECTOR SHALL
MAKE ALL PRACTICAL AND REASONABLE EFFORTS TO RESOLVE CHARGES AND
MANNER.COMPLAINTS OF UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICES IN A SWIFT

(D) FOR COPY,THE PURPOSES OF EXAMINATION AND THE RIGHT TO THE
BOARD AND THE DEPUTY DIRECTORS SHALL AT ALL REASONABLE TIMES HAVE
ACCESS TO EVIDENCE OF A PERSON BEING INVESTIGATED OR PROCEEDED AGAINST
THAT RELATES TO A MATTER UNDER INVESTIGATION OR IN QUESTION UNDER THIS
SECTION.

(E) (1) IF THERE IS A CHARGE OF AN UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICE
PARTY’SRESULTING FROM A CONDUCT IN COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND THAT IS
BARGAINING:ALLEGED TO HAVE AN EFFECT ON THE COURSE OF COLLECTIVE

(I) THE APPROPRIATE DEPUTY DIRECTOR SHALL DETERMINE
BOARD COMPLAINT;WHETHER THERE IS PROBABLE CAUSE FOR THE TO ISSUE A

(II) IF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR DETERMINES THERE IS
CAUSE, BOARD 30PROBABLE THE SHALL ISSUE A COMPLAINT WITHIN DAYS AFTER
CHARGE;THE FILING OF THE AND

(III) ISSUED, BOARDIF A COMPLAINT IS THE SHALL RESOLVE
90THE COMPLAINT AND ISSUE A FINAL DECISION WITHIN DAYS AFTER THE FILING
CHARGE.OF THE

– 40 –

PAGE 41
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(2) THE BOARD MAY ACCELERATE THE TIME TO RESOLVE CHARGES
AND COMPLAINTS IN EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY
BOARD.THE

(F) ~~(1)~~ THE APPROPRIATE DEPUTY DIRECTOR SHALL ~~PROSECUTE~~ ~~ANY~~
~~BOARD~~~~CHARGE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~ISSUED~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMPLAINT~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~HEARING~~ ~~BEFORE~~
PROVIDE RELEVANT INFORMATION GATHERED IN THE INVESTIGATION OF A CHARGE
BOARD OFFICEOR COMPLAINT OF UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICES TO THE ~~OR~~ AND THE
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.OF

~~(2)~~ (G) THE CHARGING PARTY HAS THE RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN
BOARD OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVEANY HEARING BEFORE THE OR THE OF
HEARINGS.

~~(G)~~ (H) THE BOARD E–MAIL.SHALL ACCEPT DOCUMENTS FILED BY

21–308.

(A) IF BOARD,A PERSON FAILS TO COMPLY WITH AN ORDER ISSUED BY THE
BOARDA MEMBER OF THE MAY PETITION THE CIRCUIT COURT TO ORDER THE
BOARD’S ORDER.PERSON TO COMPLY WITH THE

(B) THE BOARD MAY NOT BE REQUIRED TO POST BOND IN AN ACTION
(A) SECTION.UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

21–309.

(A) THE BOARD REGULATION, ORDER,IS NOT BOUND BY ANY PRIOR
~~ACTION,~~ ~~OPINION,~~ STATE LABOR RELATIONS~~OR~~ ~~DECISION~~ OR ACTION OF THE
BOARD, PUBLIC SCHOOL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD, STATE HIGHERTHE OR THE
EDUCATION LABOR RELATIONS BOARD, EXCEPT FOR DECISIONS REGARDING UNIT
~~§~~ ~~21–401(C)~~ § 21–403(C) TITLE.COMPOSITION UNDER OF THIS

(B) THE BOARD IS BOUND BY PRIOR OPINIONS AND DECISIONS OF A LABOR
(A) SECTION.BOARD LISTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

~~(B)~~ (C) A ORDER, ~~ACTION,~~ ~~OPINION,~~PRIOR ~~OR~~ ~~DECISION~~ OR ACTION OF A
(A)LABOR BOARD LISTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION OR ANY OTHER
VALUE.BODY MAY BE CONSIDERED FOR ITS PERSUASIVE

~~(C)~~ (D) THE BOARD SHALL BE BOUND BY JUDICIAL ORDERS REGARDING
TITLE 6, SUBTITLES 4 5THE SCOPE OF BARGAINING UNDER AND OF THE
EDUCATION ARTICLE.

– 41 –

PAGE 42
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SUBTITLE 4. ELECTIONS CERTIFICATION EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVES.AND OF

21–401.

(A) EXCEPT SUBTITLE, BOARDAS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS THE
SHALL CONDUCT AN ELECTION FOR AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OF A
IF:BARGAINING UNIT

(1) § 21–402A VALID PETITION IS FILED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
SUBTITLE;THIS AND

(2) THE BARGAINING UNIT INVOLVED IN THE PETITION IS
§ 21–403DETERMINED TO BE AN APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT UNDER OF THIS
SUBTITLE.

(B) THE BOARD MAY NOT CONDUCT AN ELECTION FOR AN EXCLUSIVE
BOARDREPRESENTATIVE OF A BARGAINING UNIT IF THE HAS CONDUCTED AN
ELECTION OR CERTIFIED AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE FOR THAT BARGAINING
12 MONTHS.UNIT WITHIN THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING

(C) (1) AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OR A BARGAINING UNIT IN
JUNE 30, 2023:EXISTENCE ON

(I) SHALL CONTINUE WITHOUT THE REQUIREMENT OF AN
ELECTION AND CERTIFICATION UNTIL A QUESTION CONCERNING REPRESENTATION
TITLE;IS RAISED UNDER THIS OR

(II) BOARDUNTIL THE FINDS THE UNIT NOT TO BE
EMPLOYER,APPROPRIATE AFTER CHALLENGE BY THE PUBLIC A MEMBER OF THE
UNIT, ORGANIZATION.OR AN EMPLOYEE

(2) (I) THE APPROPRIATENESS OF THE UNIT MAY NOT BE
CHALLENGED UNTIL THE EXPIRATION OF ANY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
JUNE 30, 2023.AGREEMENT IN EFFECT ON

(II) THE BOARD MAY NOT MODIFY ANY BARGAINING UNIT
LAW.DETERMINED UNDER EXISTING

21–402.

(A) A PETITION FOR THE ELECTION OF AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OF
BOARD BY:A BARGAINING UNIT MAY BE FILED WITH THE

– 42 –

PAGE 43
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(1) AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION SEEKING CERTIFICATION AS AN
REPRESENTATIVE;EXCLUSIVE OR

(2) EMPLOYEE, EMPLOYEES,AN A GROUP OF OR AN EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATION SEEKING A NEW ELECTION TO DETERMINE AN EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE.

(B) A SHALL:PETITION

(1) BOARD REQUIRES;CONTAIN THE INFORMATION THE AND

(2) 30%BE ACCOMPANIED BY ~~A~~ SHOWING OF INTEREST FORMS FROM
OF THE EMPLOYEES IN THE APPROPRIATE UNIT INDICATING THEIR DESIRE TO BE
EXCLUSIVELY REPRESENTED BY THE EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE NAMED IN THE
BARGAINING.PETITION FOR THE PURPOSE OF COLLECTIVE

(C) IF BOARDTHE DETERMINES THAT A REQUIRED SHOWING OF INTEREST
ADEQUATE, BOARD:IS NOT THE

(1) 30SHALL ALLOW AT A MINIMUM AN ADDITIONAL DAYS FOR THE
PETITIONER TO SUBMIT ADDITIONAL SHOWING OF INTEREST FORMS AFTER THE
DETERMINATION;PETITIONER IS NOTIFIED OF THE AND

(2) MAY, CAUSE,FOR GOOD PROVIDE ADDITIONAL TIME TO THE
FORMS.PETITIONER TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL

(D) IF 50%A PETITION IS SUPPORTED BY MORE THAN OF THE PUBLIC
UNIT,EMPLOYEES IN THE BARGAINING THE PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL
IMMEDIATELY RECOGNIZE THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION AS THE EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVE AND AFFORD TO THE EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE AND ITS
TITLE.MEMBERS ALL RIGHTS DUE UNDER THIS

(E) (1) A (A)PETITION FILED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION
BOARDSHALL INCLUDE SHOWING OF INTEREST FORMS PROVIDED TO THE FROM AN
ORGANIZATION.EMPLOYEE

(2) THE BOARD SHALL ACCEPT A SHOWING OF INTEREST FORM
WHETHER OR NOT THE SIGNATURES ON THE FORM ARE ELECTRONIC OR
HANDWRITTEN.

(3) (I) FOR AN ELECTION THAT IS CONDUCTED TO DETERMINE
UNIT,WHETHER AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE SHOULD REPRESENT A A
SHOWING OF INTEREST FORM IS VALID IF THE SIGNATURES WERE COLLECTED

– 43 –

PAGE 44
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

18–MONTHWITHIN THE PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DATE ON WHICH A
FILED.PETITION FOR THE ELECTION IS

(II) FOR AN ELECTION THAT IS CONDUCTED TO DETERMINE
WHETHER AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE SHOULD NO LONGER REPRESENT A
UNIT, A SHOWING OF INTEREST FORM IS VALID IF THE SIGNATURES WERE
~~90–DAY~~ 9–MONTHCOLLECTED WITHIN THE PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE
FILED.DATE ON WHICH THE PETITION FOR ELECTION IS

(4) A SHOWING OF INTEREST FORM MAY BE USED BY A PUBLIC
EMPLOYEE.EMPLOYEE FOR EACH PUBLIC EMPLOYER THAT EMPLOYS THE PUBLIC

(F) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A PUBLIC
BOARDEMPLOYER SHALL PROVIDE TO THE AND THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION AN
2ALPHABETICAL LIST OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES IN EACH BARGAINING UNIT WITHIN
FILED.DAYS AFTER A PETITION FOR AN ELECTION IS

(2) THE (1)LIST REQUIRED TO BE PROVIDED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF
SHALL:THIS SUBSECTION

(I) INCLUDE FOR EACH PUBLIC EMPLOYEE ON THE PAYROLL
FILED,FOR THE LAST PAY PERIOD BEFORE A PETITION FOR ELECTION IS THE
EMPLOYEE’S:PUBLIC

1. NAME;

2. CLASSIFICATION;POSITION

3. HOME AND WORK SITE ADDRESSES WHERE THE
UNITED STATES MAIL;EMPLOYEE RECEIVES INTEROFFICE OR

4. NUMBERS;HOME AND WORK SITE TELEPHONE

5. NUMBER;PERSONAL CELL PHONE AND

6. E–MAIL ADDRESS;WORK AND

(II) IDENTIFY EACH PUBLIC EMPLOYEE THAT SHOULD BE
EXCLUDED AS AN ELIGIBLE VOTER WITH A STATEMENT EXPLAINING THE REASON
EXCLUSION.FOR THE

(3) A PUBLIC EMPLOYER MAY NOT CHALLENGE THE ELIGIBILITY OF
EMPLOYEE’SA PUBLIC VOTE IN AN ELECTION IF THE EMPLOYER FAILS TO EXPLAIN

– 44 –

PAGE 45
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(2)AS REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION THE REASON FOR
SUBSECTION.EXCLUDING A PUBLIC EMPLOYEE UNDER THIS

(4) ON APPLICATION BY A PUBLIC EMPLOYER OR AN EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATION, BOARDTHE MAY DETERMINE THAT A PUBLIC EMPLOYER SHALL BE
DESIGNATED AS A JOINT PUBLIC EMPLOYER OF A PUBLIC EMPLOYEE WITHIN A
BARGAINING UNIT UNDER THIS SUBTITLE WHEN THE DESIGNATION WOULD BEST
TITLE.EFFECTUATE THE PURPOSES OF THIS

21–403.

(A) (1) EXCEPT TITLE, TITLE 6,AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS
SUBTITLE 4 5 EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLE 16, SUBTITLE 7OR OF THE OF THE
EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLE 3 STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONSOR OF THE AND
ARTICLE, BOARDTHE SHALL DETERMINE THE APPROPRIATENESS OF EACH
UNIT.BARGAINING

(2) IF THERE IS NO DISPUTE ABOUT THE APPROPRIATENESS OF THE
UNIT, BOARDESTABLISHMENT OF THE BARGAINING THE SHALL ISSUE AN ORDER
UNIT.DEFINING AN APPROPRIATE BARGAINING

(3) IF THERE IS A DISPUTE ABOUT THE APPROPRIATENESS OF THE
UNIT, BOARD SHALL:ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BARGAINING THE

(I) HEARING;CONDUCT A AND

(II) ISSUE AN ORDER DEFINING AN APPROPRIATE BARGAINING
UNIT.

(B) IF THE APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT AS DETERMINED BY THE
BOARD PETITION,DIFFERS FROM THE BARGAINING UNIT DESCRIBED IN THE THE
BOARD MAY:

(1) PETITION;DISMISS THE OR

(2) DIRECT AN ELECTION IN THE APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT IF
30%AT LEAST OF THE SIGNATURES INCLUDED IN THE PETITION ARE OF EMPLOYEES
UNIT.IN THE APPROPRIATE BARGAINING

(C) A EMPLOYEES.BARGAINING UNIT MAY CONSIST ONLY OF PUBLIC

21–404.

– 45 –

PAGE 46
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

EACH EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION THAT SEEKS CERTIFICATION AS AN
BOARD:EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE SHALL FILE WITH THE

(1) ORGANIZATION’SA COPY OF THE EMPLOYEE GOVERNING
THAT:DOCUMENTS

(I) GIVE INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS THE RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN
ORGANIZATION;ACTIVITIES OF THE

(II) REQUIRE PERIODIC ELECTIONS BY SECRET BALLOT THAT
ARE CONDUCTED WITH RECOGNIZED SAFEGUARDS TO ENSURE THE EQUAL RIGHTS
NOMINATE, OFFICE, ELECTIONS;OF ALL MEMBERS TO SEEK AND VOTE IN THE AND

(III) DIRECT FULL AND ACCURATE ACCOUNTING OF ALL INCOME
METHODS;AND EXPENSES USING STANDARD ACCOUNTING AND

(2) A CERTIFICATION THAT THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION ACCEPTS
§ 21–201(D)MEMBERS WITHOUT REGARD TO ANY CHARACTERISTIC LISTED IN OF
TITLE.THIS

21–405.

(A) (1) WITHIN 5 DAYS AFTER DETERMINING THAT A VALID PETITION HAS
§ 21–402 SUBTITLE, BOARDBEEN SUBMITTED UNDER OF THIS THE SHALL NOTIFY
PETITION.INTERESTED EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS OF THE PENDING ELECTION

(2) WITHIN 10 DAYS AFTER DETERMINING THAT A VALID PETITION
§ 21–402 SUBTITLE, EMPLOYER,HAS BEEN SUBMITTED UNDER OF THIS THE PUBLIC
APPROPRIATE,AS SHALL MAKE AVAILABLE TO ALL INTERESTED EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATIONS REASONABLE AND EQUIVALENT MEANS TO COMMUNICATE BY MAIL
AND IN PERSON WITH EACH EMPLOYEE IN THE APPROPRIATE BARGAINING UNIT FOR
EMPLOYEE’STHE PURPOSE OF SOLICITING THE VOTE IN AN ELECTION HELD UNDER
SECTION.THIS

(B) AN 90ELECTION SHALL BE HELD IN A BARGAINING UNIT WITHIN DAYS
AFTER THE FILING OF A VALID PETITION FOR ELECTION IN THE BARGAINING UNIT
BOARD.IN ACCORDANCE WITH GUIDELINES ESTABLISHED BY THE

(C) (1) (I) THE BOARD ELECTION:SHALL CONDUCT THE

1. BALLOT;BY SECRET AND

– 46 –

PAGE 47
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

2. (II)SUBJECT TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, IN–PERSON VOTING, MAIL,IN WHOLE OR IN PART BY OR AN
SYSTEM.ELECTRONIC VOTING

(II) THE BOARD MAY DESIGNATE THE TIME PERIOD FOR
IN–PERSON (III)VOTING UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH ONLY AFTER
CONSULTING WITH THE PUBLIC EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS ON THE
BALLOT.

(III) 1. THE BOARD 10SHALL ALLOW AT LEAST DAYS OF
(I)VOTING FOR AN ELECTION CONDUCTED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, UNLESS AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION ON THE BALLOT REQUESTS AN
EXTENSION.

2. IF INOPERABLE, BOARDTHE VOTING SYSTEM IS THE
VOTING.MAY EXTEND THE TIME PERIOD FOR

(2) (I) AN EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION ON A BALLOT MAY REQUEST
A PREFERRED METHOD OF VOTING AT THE TIME A PETITION FOR ELECTION IS FILED
BOARD.WITH THE

(II) EXCEPT (III)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, BOARDTHE SHALL DESIGNATE THE METHOD OF VOTING BASED ON
BALLOT.THE REQUESTS OF THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATIONS ON THE

(III) IF THERE IS A DISPUTE BETWEEN TWO OR MORE EMPLOYEE
VOTING, BOARDORGANIZATIONS ON THE BALLOT OVER THE METHOD OF THE MAY
VOTING.DESIGNATE THE METHOD OF

(3) THE BOARD SHALL PLACE THE FOLLOWING CHOICES ON THE
BALLOT:

(I) REPRESENTATIVE, ANY;THE NAME OF THE EXCLUSIVE IF

(II) THE NAME OF THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION DESIGNATED
§ 21–402IN THE PETITION FILED UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE WITH RESPECT TO AN
UNIT;APPROPRIATE BARGAINING

(III) THE NAME OF EACH EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION
BOARD, 15DESIGNATED IN A PETITION FILED WITH THE WITHIN DAYS OF NOTICE OF
PETITION,THE PENDING ELECTION THAT INCLUDES THE SIGNATURES OF AT LEAST
10% UNIT;OF THE EMPLOYEES IN THE APPROPRIATE BARGAINING AND

(IV) “NO REPRESENTATIVE”.A PROVISION FOR EXCLUSIVE
– 47 –

PAGE 48
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(D) IF NONE OF THE CHOICES ON A BALLOT RECEIVES A MAJORITY OF THE
ELECTION, BOARDVOTES CAST IN AN THE SHALL CONDUCT A RUNOFF ELECTION
BETWEEN THE CHOICES THAT RECEIVED THE TWO HIGHEST NUMBER OF VOTES IN
ELECTION.THE

21–406.

(A) EXCEPT (B) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
BOARD SHALL CERTIFY AS EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE THE EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATION RECEIVING THE VOTES IN AN ELECTION FROM A MAJORITY OF THE
ELECTION.EMPLOYEES VOTING IN THE

(B) AFTER HEARING, BOARDNOTICE AND AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A THE MAY
DENY OR REVOKE CERTIFICATION AS EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OF AN
TITLE.EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION FOR WILLFUL FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THIS

(C) NOTWITHSTANDING SUBTITLE,ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS THE
BOARD SHALL CERTIFY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION AS THE EXCLUSIVE
IF:REPRESENTATIVE WITHOUT AN ELECTION

(1) A PETITION FOR AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE HAS BEEN
UNIT;FILED FOR A BARGAINING

(2) BOARDTHE FINDS THAT A MAJORITY OF THE EMPLOYEES IN THE
BARGAINING UNIT HAVE SIGNED VALID AUTHORIZATIONS DESIGNATING THE
REPRESENTATIVE;EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION AS THEIR EXCLUSIVE AND

(3) NO OTHER EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION IS CURRENTLY CERTIFIED
UNIT.OR RECOGNIZED AS THE EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE BARGAINING

21–407.

NAMES BOARDOR LISTS OF EMPLOYEES PROVIDED TO THE IN CONNECTION
WITH AN ELECTION UNDER THIS SUBTITLE ARE NOT SUBJECT TO DISCLOSURE IN
TITLE 4 GENERAL PROVISIONS ARTICLE.ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE

SUBTITLE 5. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.

21–501.

~~(A)~~ REPRESENTATIVES OF PUBLIC EMPLOYERS AND EXCLUSIVE
REPRESENTATIVES SHALL MEET AT REASONABLE TIMES AND ENGAGE IN

– 48 –

PAGE 49
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING IN GOOD FAITH AND TO CONCLUDE A WRITTEN
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING OR OTHER NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT IN
TITLE 6, SUBTITLE 4 5 EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLEACCORDANCE WITH OR OF THE
16, SUBTITLE 7 EDUCATION ARTICLE, TITLE 3 STATEOF THE OR OF THE
PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE.AND

~~(B)~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~NEGOTIATED~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~BETWEEN~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYER~~ ~~AND~~
~~AN~~ ~~EXCLUSIVE~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~CONTAIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROCEDURE~~ ~~BY~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~A~~
~~DISPUTE~~ ~~REGARDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~APPLICATIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NEGOTIATED~~
~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~BE~~ ~~RESOLVED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~AN~~ ~~IMPARTIAL~~ ~~ARBITER~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROCEEDING~~
~~WHICH~~ ~~BINDS~~ ~~BOTH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~TO~~
~~RESULT.~~~~THE~~

~~21–502.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~APPLIES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~ORGANIZATIONS~~ ~~EXCLUSIVE~~
~~REPRESENTATIVES~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~REPRESENT~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYEES~~ ~~ENTITLED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~USE~~ ~~THE~~
~~UNDER:~~~~GRIEVANCE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~APPEAL~~ ~~PROCEDURES~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~

~~(1)~~ ~~TITLES~~ ~~11~~ ~~12~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~PERSONNEL~~ ~~PENSIONS~~~~AND~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~
~~ARTICLE;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~13,~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~2~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~ARTICLE;~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(3)~~ ~~§~~ ~~14–302,~~ ~~§~~ ~~14–408,~~ ~~§~~ ~~16–510~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~ARTICLE;~~~~OR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(4)~~ ~~§~~ ~~2–103.4(D)~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(B)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~
~~REPRESENTS~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYEES~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~ENTITLED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RAISE~~ ~~GRIEVANCES~~ ~~OF~~
~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EMPLOYER~~ ~~ACTIONS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GRIEVANCE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~APPEAL~~ ~~PROCEDURES~~
~~(A)~~~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROVISION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~LAW~~ ~~LISTED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION,~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GRIEVANCE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~APPEAL~~ ~~PROCEDURES~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~SERVE~~ ~~AS~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROCEDURE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RESOLUTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~DISPUTES~~ ~~REGARDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMS~~ ~~AND~~
~~UNDERSTANDING,~~ ~~AGREEMENTS,~~~~APPLICATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MEMORANDA~~ ~~OF~~ ~~NEGOTIATED~~
~~AGREEMENTS,~~~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~FINAL~~ ~~WRITTEN~~ ~~TO~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~ORGANIZATIONS~~
~~PARTY.~~~~ARE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EXCLUSIVE~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~IS~~ ~~A~~

~~(C)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EXCLUSIVE~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~GRIEVE~~ ~~ALLEGED~~ ~~VIOLATIONS~~
~~UNDERSTANDING,~~ ~~AGREEMENT,~~~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMORANDUM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~NEGOTIATED~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~
~~AGREEMENT,~~~~FINAL~~ ~~WRITTEN~~ ~~AS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REAL~~ ~~PARTY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~INTEREST~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~A~~
~~GRIEVANCE~~ ~~PROCEDURE~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROVISION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~LAW~~ ~~LISTED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(A)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

– 49 –

PAGE 50
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(D)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~ADMINISTRATIVE~~ ~~HEARINGS~~~~OF~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~HAVE~~
~~JURISDICTION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RESOLVE~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~DISPUTE~~ ~~REGARDING~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMORANDUM~~ ~~OF~~
~~UNDERSTANDING,~~ ~~AGREEMENT,~~~~NEGOTIATED~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~FINAL~~ ~~WRITTEN~~
~~AGREEMENT,~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~GRIEVED~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~A~~ ~~GRIEVANCE~~ ~~PROCEDURE~~ ~~CITED~~ ~~IN~~
~~(A)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

SUBTITLE 6. SHORT TITLE.

21–601.

THIS MARYLAND PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RELATIONSTITLE MAY BE CITED AS THE
ACT.

Article – State Personnel and Pensions

3–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

means[:(b) “Board”

(1) with regard to any matter relating to employees of any of the units of
State government described in § 3–102(a)(1)(i) through (iv) and (vi) through (xii) of this
subtitle and employees described in § 3–102(a)(2) and (3) of this subtitle, the State Labor
Relations Board; and

(2) with regard to any matter relating to employees of any State institution
of higher education described in § 3–102(a)(1)(v) of this subtitle, the State Higher Education
Board] PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RELATIONS BOARD.Labor Relations THE

(c) “Chancellor” has the meaning stated in § 12–101 of the Education Article.

(d) “Collective bargaining” means:

(1) good faith negotiations by authorized representatives of employees and
their employer with the intention of:

(i) 1. reaching an agreement about wages, hours, and other
terms and conditions of employment; and

2. incorporating the terms of the agreement in a written
memorandum of understanding or other written understanding; or

(ii) clarifying terms and conditions of employment;

– 50 –

PAGE 51
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(2) administration of terms and conditions of employment; or

(3) the voluntary adjustment of a dispute or disagreement between
authorized representatives of employees and their employer that arises under a
memorandum of understanding or other written understanding.

[means(e) “Employee organization” a labor or other organization in which State
employees]employees participate and that has as one of its primary purposes representing
§ 21–101 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE

[means(f) “Exclusive representative” an employee organization that has been
title]certified by the Board as an exclusive representative under Subtitle 4 of this HAS THE
§ 21–101 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.MEANING STATED IN OF THE

(g) (1) “Faculty at the Maryland School for the Deaf” means employees who
have been granted the following status by the Board of Trustees of the Maryland School for
the Deaf:

(i) after–school program counselors;

(ii) American Sign Language specialists;

(iii) athletic trainers;

(iv) behavior specialists;

(v) clerical aides;

(vi) dorm counselors;

(vii) employment specialists;

(viii) instructional technology resource specialists;

(ix) librarians;

(x) literacy and reading specialists;

(xi) occupational therapists;

(xii) orientation and mobility specialists;

(xiii) physical therapists;

(xiv) school counselors;

– 51 –

PAGE 52
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(xv) school IEP coordinators;

(xvi) school nurses;

(xvii) school social workers;

(xviii) speech–language pathologists;

(xix) student support specialists;

(xx) teachers;

(xxi) teacher aides;

(xxii) transition coordinators; and

(xxiii) work–to–learn specialists.

(2) “Faculty at the Maryland School for the Deaf” does not include officers
or supervisory employees at the Maryland School for the Deaf.

(h) “President” means:

(1) with regard to a constituent institution, as defined in § 12–101 of the
Education Article, the president of the constituent institution;

(2) with regard to a center or institute, as those terms are defined in §
12–101 of the Education Article, the president of the center or institute;

(3) with regard to the University System of Maryland Office, the
Chancellor of the University System of Maryland; and

(4) with regard to Morgan State University, St. Mary’s College of
Maryland, and Baltimore City Community College, the president of the institution.

(i) “System institution” means:

(1) a constituent institution, as defined in § 12–101 of the Education
Article;

(2) a center or institute, as those terms are defined in § 12–101 of the
Education Article; and

(3) the University System of Maryland Office.

3–102.

– 52 –

PAGE 53
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

(C) EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYERS, AND EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVES
TITLE 21SUBJECT TO THIS TITLE ARE SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF OF THE
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

(D) (1) SUBJECT TITLE 21, SUBTITLE 4 STATE GOVERNMENTTO OF THE
ARTICLE, A BARGAINING UNIT SHALL CONSIST ONLY OF EMPLOYEES DEFINED IN
SECRETARYREGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE AND NOT SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDED BY
(B) SECTION.SUBSECTION OF THIS

(2) (I) EACH INSTITUTION, MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY,SYSTEM
ST. MARY’S COLLEGE MARYLAND, BALTIMORE CITY COMMUNITY COLLEGEOF AND
UNITS.SHALL HAVE SEPARATE BARGAINING

(II) APPROPRIATE OF:BARGAINING UNITS SHALL CONSIST

1. EMPLOYEES,ALL ELIGIBLE NONEXEMPT AS
FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT,DESCRIBED IN THE FEDERAL EXCEPT ELIGIBLE
OFFICERS;SWORN POLICE

2. EMPLOYEES,ALL ELIGIBLE EXEMPT AS DESCRIBED IN
FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT;THE FEDERAL AND

3. OFFICERS.ALL ELIGIBLE SWORN POLICE

(3) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, SECRETARY SECRETARY’STHE OR THE DESIGNEE SHALL HAVE THE
AUTHORITY TO ASSIGN CLASSIFICATION TITLES AND POSITIONS TO BARGAINING
APPROPRIATE.UNITS AS

(II) THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES SHALL
ASSIGN CLASSIFICATION TITLES AND POSITIONS TO BARGAINING UNITS AT THE
INSTITUTIONS:FOLLOWING

1. INSTITUTION, PRESIDENTAT A SYSTEM THE OF THE
INSTITUTION;SYSTEM AND

2. MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY, ST. MARY’SAT
COLLEGE MARYLAND, BALTIMORE CITY COMMUNITY COLLEGE,OF OR THE
INSTITUTION.GOVERNING BOARD OF THE

(4) NOTWITHSTANDING LAW:ANY OTHER PROVISION OF

– 53 –

PAGE 54
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) MARYLAND TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY POLICE
OFFICERS AT THE RANK OF FIRST SERGEANT AND BELOW SHALL HAVE A SEPARATE
UNIT;BARGAINING AND

(II) MARYLAND SCHOOL DEAFFACULTY AT THE FOR THE
UNIT.SHALL HAVE A SEPARATE BARGAINING

3–501.

(1) [Negotiations] EXCEPT (2)(e) AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, for a memorandum of understanding shall be consideredNEGOTIATIONS
closed sessions under § 3–305 of the General Provisions Article.

(2) AN EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE MAY NOT BE CONSIDERED A
§ 3–101 GENERAL PROVISIONS ARTICLE.PUBLIC BODY UNDER OF THE

3–502.

(a) Collective bargaining shall include all matters relating to:

(1) wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment; and

[as(2) the time and manner of access to a new employee program required
title] § 21–207 STATEunder § 3–307 of this IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

[(1)(b) Collective bargaining may include negotiations relating to the right of
an employee organization to receive service fees from nonmembers.

(2) An employee whose religious beliefs are opposed to joining or financially
supporting any collective bargaining organization is:

(i) not required to pay a service fee; and

(ii) required to pay an amount of money as determined in collective
bargaining negotiations, not to exceed any service fee negotiated under paragraph (1) of
this subsection, to any charitable organization exempt from taxation under § 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code and to furnish written proof of the payment to:

1. A. the Department;

B. in the case of an employee of the Maryland Environmental
Service, the Board of Directors of the Service; or

– 54 –

PAGE 55
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 114

C. in the case of an employee of an institution of higher
education specified in § 3–102(a)(1)(v) of this title, the President of the institution or the
President’s designee; and

2. the exclusive representative.

(c)] Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, the representatives of the
State, the Maryland Environmental Service, a system institution, Morgan State
University, St. Mary’s College of Maryland, and Baltimore City Community College:

[shall](1) not be required to negotiate over any matter that isMAY
inconsistent with applicable law; and

(2) may negotiate and reach agreement with regard to any such matter
only if it is understood that the agreement with respect to such matter cannot become
effective unless the applicable law is amended by the General Assembly.

SECTION 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the terms of the members of
the Public Employee Relations Board shall expire as follows:

(1) one member appointed under § 21–302(a)(2) of the State Government
Article, as enacted by Section 3 of this Act, and one member appointed under § 21–302(a)(3)
of the State Government Article, as enacted by Section 3 of this Act, on June 30, 2025;

(2) one member appointed under § 21–302(a)(2) of the State Government
Article, as enacted by Section 3 of this Act, and one member appointed under § 21–302(a)(3)
of the State Government Article, as enacted by Section 3 of this Act, on June 30, 2029; and

(3) the chair appointed under § 21–302(a)(1) of the State Government
Article, as enacted by Section 4 of this Act, on June 30, 2027.

SECTION 6. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) The Public Employee Relations Board shall be the successor to the State Labor
Relations Board, State Higher Education Labor Relations Board, and Public School Labor
Relations Board, and shall have all powers and duties granted by law to those boards.

(b) Any investigation, litigation, or other action pending before the State Labor
Relations Board, State Higher Education Labor Relations Board, and Public School Labor
Relations Board on June 30, 2023 shall continue before the Public Employee Relations
Board.

SECTION 7. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, if any provision of this Act or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid for any reason in a
court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity does not affect other provisions or any other

– 55 –

PAGE 56
Ch. 114 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

application of this Act that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application,
and for this purpose the provisions of this Act are declared severable.

SECTION 8. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 56 –