PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 471

Chapter 471

(House Bill 922)

AN ACT concerning

Economic Development – Program Participation – Cannabis Business
Establishments

FOR the purpose of prohibiting the Department of Commerce from denying certain
cannabis business entities conducting business in the State certain economic
development program benefits under certain circumstances; clarifying the eligibility
of certain cannabis business entities conducting business in the State under the Job
Creation and One Maryland programs; prohibiting the Department from refusing to
certify certain cannabis business entities conducting business in the State to
participate in the More Jobs for Marylanders Program under certain circumstances;
authorizing certain cannabis business entities to reapply for benefits under certain
economic development programs; and generally relating to the ability of cannabis
business entities to participate in economic development programs in the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 5–101, 6–303(b)(1)(ii)12., and 6–402(b)(3)(xii) and (xiii)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 6–303(b)(1)(ii)13.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 6–303(b)(1)(ii)14., 6–402(b)(3)(xiv), and 6–803(a–1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

5–101.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 471 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) The Department shall administer the State’s economic development and
growth funds to facilitate the attraction, creation, expansion, and retention of businesses
and jobs in the State.

(b) The Department shall encourage local governments to develop, and assist
local governments in developing, strategic plans for economic development.

(C) (1) THE DEPARTMENT MAY NOT DENY A BUSINESS ENTITY
GROWER,CONDUCTING A TRADE OR A BUSINESS AS A MEDICAL CANNABIS
PROCESSOR, OR DISPENSARY OR ANY OTHER CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LICENSED
STATEBY THE A PROGRAM BENEFIT UNDER THIS TITLE SOLELY BECAUSE THE
ESTABLISHMENT,BUSINESS ENTITY IS A CANNABIS IF THE BUSINESS ENTITY
PROGRAM,OTHERWISE SATISFIES THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE INCLUDING ANY
REQUIREMENTS.INDUSTRY SECTOR SPECIFIC

(2) IF, JULY 1, 2023,BEFORE A BUSINESS ENTITY DESCRIBED UNDER
(1)PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION WAS DENIED A PROGRAM BENEFIT UNDER THIS
ESTABLISHMENT,TITLE SOLELY BECAUSE THE BUSINESS ENTITY WAS A CANNABIS
PROGRAM.THE BUSINESS ENTITY MAY REAPPLY FOR THE

6–303.

(b) To be eligible for a tax credit under this subtitle:

(1) a person shall establish or expand a business facility in the State that:

(ii) is primarily engaged in:

12. business services, if the business facility established or
[or]expanded is located in a State priority funding area;

13. entertainment, recreation, cultural, or tourism–related
activities in a multi–use facility located within a revitalization area if the facility:

A. generates a minimum of 1,000 new full–time equivalent
filled positions in a 24–month period; and

B. is not primarily used by a professional sports franchise or
for gaming; or

14. GROWTH, PROCESSING,THE OR DISPENSING OF
STATE;CANNABIS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE OR

6–402.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 471

(b) To be eligible for a project tax credit, a person shall:

(3) be primarily engaged at the new or expanded business facility in any
combination of:

[or](xii) warehousing;

services;(xiii) other business OR

(XIV) GROWTH, PROCESSING,THE OR DISPENSING OF CANNABIS
STATE.IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE

6–803.

(A–1) (1) THE DEPARTMENT MAY NOT REFUSE TO CERTIFY A BUSINESS
GROWER,ENTITY CONDUCTING A TRADE OR A BUSINESS AS A MEDICAL CANNABIS
PROCESSOR, OR DISPENSARY OR ANY OTHER CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LICENSED
STATEBY THE SOLELY BECAUSE THE BUSINESS ENTITY IS A CANNABIS
ESTABLISHMENT, IF THE BUSINESS ENTITY OTHERWISE SATISFIES THE
SUBTITLE.REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(2) IF, JULY 1, 2023,BEFORE A BUSINESS ENTITY DESCRIBED UNDER
(1)PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION WAS DENIED CERTIFICATION UNDER THIS
SUBTITLE SOLELY BECAUSE THE BUSINESS ENTITY WAS A CANNABIS
ESTABLISHMENT, DEPARTMENTTHE BUSINESS ENTITY MAY REAPPLY TO THE FOR
CERTIFICATION.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 3 –