PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

Chapter 100

(House Bill 982)

AN ACT concerning

State Employees – Programs and Scholarships for Human Services Careers and
Probation Agents and State Contributions to Supplemental Retirement Plans

FOR the purpose of establishing the Pilot Program for Human Services Careers to
encourage collaboration between the Department of Human Services and certain
local school systems to assist students in establishing careers in certain positions in
the Department of Human Services located in certain counties; requiring the
Department of Human Services and certain local school systems to take certain
actions regarding the Pilot Program; altering the eligibility criteria for the Maryland
Loan Assistance Repayment Program for Police Officers and the Maryland Police
Officers Scholarship Program to include probation agents who work for the
Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services; altering the names of and
the annual appropriations to the Repayment Program and the Scholarship Program;
establishing the Pilot Program for Human Services Careers Scholarship to provide
tuition assistance to students pursuing a credential or degree that is necessary to
work in or further a career in certain positions in the Department of Human Services
located in certain counties; requiring the State to make certain employer
contributions for State employees participating in certain supplemental retirement
plans under certain circumstances; requiring the Maryland Higher Education
Commission to make certain scholarship awards in fiscal year 2024; and generally
relating to the establishment of programs and scholarships for human services
careers and probation agents employed by the State, and State contributions to the
supplemental retirement plans of State employees.

BY adding to
Article – Human Services
Section 2–303
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 7–132; and 18–3901 through 18–3904 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle
39. Pilot Program for Human Services Careers Scholarship”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 18–3701, 18–3702, and 18–3704 to be under the amended subtitle “Subtitle
37. Maryland Loan Assistance Repayment Program for Police Officers and
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Probation Agents”; and 18–3801 through 18–3804, 18–3806, and 18–3807 to
be under the amended subtitle “Subtitle 38. Maryland Police Officers and
Probation Agents Scholarship Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 32–101, 32–203(c), and 32–204
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 32–205(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Human Services

2–303.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “CAREER” MEANS AN OCCUPATION THAT PROVIDES
PROGRESS.OPPORTUNITIES FOR UPWARD MOBILITY AND PROFESSIONAL

(3) “ELIGIBLE COUNTY” MEANS:

(I) BALTIMORE CITY;

(II) BALTIMORE COUNTY; OR

(III) PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.

(4) “ELIGIBLE SYSTEM” MEANS:LOCAL SCHOOL

(I) BALTIMORE CITY SYSTEM;THE PUBLIC SCHOOL

(II) BALTIMORE COUNTY SYSTEM;THE PUBLIC SCHOOL OR

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

(III) PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY SYSTEM.THE PUBLIC SCHOOL

~~(5)~~ ~~“NEEDED~~ ~~POSITION”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~POSITIONS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~COUNTY:~~~~IN~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~CASEWORKER;~~

~~(II)~~ ~~CHILD~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~SPECIALIST;~~

~~(III)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~SPECIALIST;~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~WORKER;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(V)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~SVS~~ ~~CASEWORKER.~~

~~(6)~~ (5) “PILOT PROGRAM” PILOT PROGRAMMEANS THE FOR
HUMAN SERVICES CAREERS SECTION.ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS

~~(7)~~ (6) “SERVICE OBLIGATION” MEANS TO WORK IN A ~~NEEDED~~
5 8–YEARTARGETED POSITION FOR A MINIMUM OF YEARS DURING THE PERIOD
GRADUATION.IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING HIGH SCHOOL

(7) “TARGETED POSITIONS” MEANS THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS IN
DEPARTMENT COUNTY:THE IN AN ELIGIBLE

(I) CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST SERIES;

(II) FAMILY INVESTMENT SPECIALIST SERIES;

(III) FAMILY SUPPORT WORKER SERIES;

(IV) FAMILY SVS CASEWORKER SERIES; AND

(V) SOCIAL WORKER SERIES.

(B) (1) THERE PILOT PROGRAM HUMAN SERVICES CAREERS.IS A FOR

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PILOT~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~JULY~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2023,~~~~SHALL~~ ~~BEGIN~~ ~~ON~~ ~~AND~~ ~~END~~
~~JUNE~~ ~~30,~~ ~~2028.~~~~ON~~

~~(2)~~ ~~(3)~~ (2) THE PILOT PROGRAM TO:PURPOSE OF THE IS

(I) ENCOURAGE COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE
DEPARTMENT AND ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEMS TO ASSIST STUDENTS IN

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

DEPARTMENT;ESTABLISHING CAREERS IN ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED POSITIONS IN THE
AND

(II) DEPARTMENTASSIST CURRENT EMPLOYEES OF THE AND
DEPARTMENTEMPLOYEES IN TARGETED POSITIONS IN THE TO ESTABLISH CAREERS
DEPARTMENT.IN TARGETED POSITIONS IN THE

~~(3)~~ ~~(4)~~ (3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL WORK WITH ELIGIBLE LOCAL
§ 7–132 EDUCATIONSCHOOL SYSTEMS TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS UNDER OF THE
ARTICLE PILOT PROGRAM.REGARDING THE

(C) (1) IN POSITIONS,HIRING FOR ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED THE
DEPARTMENT WHO:SHALL PRIORITIZE APPLICANTS

(I) GRADUATED FROM A HIGH SCHOOL IN AN ELIGIBLE LOCAL
SYSTEM;SCHOOL AND

(II) PILOT PROGRAMPARTICIPATED IN THE THROUGH THE
DEPARTMENT.LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM OR AS AN EMPLOYEE OF THE

(2) IF AN APPLICANT WHO MEETS THE CRITERIA DESCRIBED IN
(1)PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION IS HIRED TO FILL A ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED
DEPARTMENT, DEPARTMENT ONE–TIMEPOSITION IN THE THE SHALL AWARD A
$500 EMPLOYEE.STIPEND OF TO THE

(D) (1) IF DEPARTMENTTHE HIRES AN APPLICANT WHO GRADUATED
FROM A HIGH SCHOOL IN AN ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM TO FILL A ~~NEEDED~~
POSITION, DEPARTMENTTARGETED THE SHALL ASSIGN TO THE NEW EMPLOYEE A
DEPARTMENT.MENTOR WHO WORKS IN THE

(2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(I) SOLICIT APPLICATIONS FROM EMPLOYEES TO SERVE AS
SECTION;MENTORS TO NEW EMPLOYEES HIRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS

(II) SELECT QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES TO SERVE AS MENTORS
DEPARTMENT;BASED ON CRITERIA DETERMINED BY THE AND

(III) NEGOTIATE MENTOR COMPENSATION WITH EACH
REPRESENTATIVE.EXCLUSIVE

~~(2)~~ (3) A SHALL:MENTOR ASSIGNED TO A NEW EMPLOYEE

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

(I) DEPARTMENTSERVE AS AN EXPERT RESOURCE ON THE FOR
EMPLOYEE;THE AND

(II) DEPARTMENTBE COMPENSATED BY THE FOR SERVING AS A
MENTOR.

(4) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL CREATE A SUPPORT SYSTEM NETWORK
PILOT PROGRAM.FOR THE EMPLOYEES WHO WANT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE

(E) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROVIDE TO EMPLOYEES AND OTHER
DEPARTMENTINTERESTED INDIVIDUALS OUTSIDE THE INFORMATION REGARDING
THE CAREER OPPORTUNITIES THAT ARE AVAILABLE IN ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED
DEPARTMENT.POSITIONS IN THE

(2) THE INCLUDE:INFORMATION SHALL

(I) THE QUALIFICATIONS NECESSARY FOR EACH ~~NEEDED~~
POSITION;TARGETED

(II) THE SALARY RANGE FOR EACH ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED
POSITION;

(III) CONTACT INFORMATION FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO CAN HELP
EMPLOYEES OBTAIN THE QUALIFICATIONS NECESSARY FOR A ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED
POSITION; AND

(IV) A DESCRIPTION OF AND CONTACT INFORMATION FOR THE
PILOT PROGRAM HUMAN SERVICES CAREERS SCHOLARSHIPFOR ESTABLISHED
§ 18–3902 EDUCATION ARTICLE.UNDER OF THE

~~(F)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~AUTHORIZE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~WORK~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~
~~NEEDED~~ ~~POSITION~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~OBTAINING~~ ~~A~~ ~~NECESSARY~~ ~~CREDENTIAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~DEGREE~~ ~~IF~~
~~EMPLOYEE:~~~~THE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~IS~~ ~~PURSUING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CREDENTIAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~DEGREE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NECESSARY~~
~~POSITION;~~~~TO~~ ~~WORK~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NEEDED~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~PLEDGES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONTINUE~~ ~~WORKING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NEEDED~~ ~~POSITION~~ ~~IN~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~DEGREE.~~~~THE~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~OBTAINING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NECESSARY~~ ~~CREDENTIAL~~ ~~OR~~

(F) THE DEPARTMENT, IN COLLABORATION WITH A SCHOLARSHIP
RECIPIENT, SHALL DEVELOP A WORK SCHEDULE THAT ENABLES THE SCHOLARSHIP
RECIPIENT TO MAINTAIN A COURSE LOAD ~~IN~~ ~~LINE~~ CONSISTENT WITH THE INTENT
PILOT PROGRAM.OF THE
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(G) IF AN EMPLOYEE OBTAINS A NECESSARY CREDENTIAL OR DEGREE TO
DEPARTMENT, DEPARTMENTWORK IN A ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED POSITION IN THE THE
ONE–TIME $500 EMPLOYEE.SHALL AWARD A STIPEND OF TO THE

~~(H)~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~5~~~~SECTION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REMAIN~~ ~~EFFECTIVE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERIOD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~YEARS~~
~~AND,~~ ~~JUNE~~ ~~30,~~ ~~2028,~~ ~~SECTION,~~~~AT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~END~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~NO~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ACTION~~
~~GENERAL~~ ~~ASSEMBLY,~~~~REQUIRED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~ABROGATED~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OF~~ ~~NO~~
~~EFFECT.~~~~FURTHER~~ ~~FORCE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(I)~~ (H) NOTHING IN THIS SECTION SHALL BE CONSTRUED TO ALTER THE
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR ANY OF THE TARGETED POSITIONS INCLUDED IN
SECTION.THIS

(I) ON DECEMBER 1, 2024, DECEMBER 1OR BEFORE AND EACH
THEREAFTER, DEPARTMENTTHE SHALL COLLABORATE WITH THE ELIGIBLE LOCAL
GENERAL ASSEMBLY,SCHOOL SYSTEMS TO SUBMIT A REPORT TO THE IN
§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, PILOTACCORDANCE WITH OF THE ON THE
PROGRAM, INCLUDING:

(1) ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY EACH ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL
SYSTEM TO ASSIST STUDENTS IN ESTABLISHING CAREERS IN TARGETED POSITIONS
DEPARTMENT;IN THE

(2) PILOTTHE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS PARTICIPATING IN THE
PROGRAM DEPARTMENT;FROM EACH ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM AND IN THE
AND

(3) SCHOLARSHIPTHE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS AWARDED A FROM
PILOT PROGRAM HUMAN SERVICES CAREERS SCHOLARSHIPTHE FOR
§ 18–3902 EDUCATION ARTICLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE

(J) ON DECEMBER 1, 2028, DEPARTMENTOR BEFORE THE SHALL SUBMIT A
GENERAL ASSEMBLY, § 2–1257REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, PILOT PROGRAMON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
PILOT PROGRAMIN ACCOMPLISHING THE GOALS OF THE IN INCREASING
DEPARTMENT.EMPLOYMENT IN TARGETED POSITIONS IN THE

Article – Education

7–132.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “CAREER” MEANS AN OCCUPATION THAT PROVIDES
PROGRESS.OPPORTUNITIES FOR UPWARD MOBILITY AND PROFESSIONAL

(3) “ELIGIBLE COUNTY” MEANS:

(I) BALTIMORE CITY;

(II) BALTIMORE COUNTY; OR

(III) PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.

(4) “ELIGIBLE SYSTEM” MEANS:LOCAL SCHOOL

(I) THE BALTIMORE CITY SYSTEM;PUBLIC SCHOOL

(II) THE BALTIMORE COUNTY SYSTEM;PUBLIC SCHOOL OR

(III) THE PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY SYSTEM.PUBLIC SCHOOL

~~(5)~~ ~~“NEEDED~~ ~~POSITIONS”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~POSITIONS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~HUMAN~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~COUNTY:~~~~OF~~ ~~IN~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~CASEWORKER;~~

~~(II)~~ ~~CHILD~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~SPECIALIST;~~

~~(III)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~SPECIALIST;~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~WORKER;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(V)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~SVS~~ ~~CASEWORKER.~~

~~(6)~~ (5) “PILOT PROGRAM” PILOT PROGRAMMEANS THE FOR
HUMAN SERVICES CAREERS § 2–303 HUMANESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
SERVICES ARTICLE.

~~(7)~~ (6) “SCHOLARSHIP” PILOT PROGRAM HUMANMEANS THE FOR
SERVICES CAREERS SCHOLARSHIP § 18–3902ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS
ARTICLE.

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(7) “TARGETED POSITIONS” MEANS THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS IN
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES COUNTY:THE OF IN AN ELIGIBLE

(I) CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST SERIES;

(II) FAMILY INVESTMENT SPECIALIST SERIES;

(III) FAMILY SUPPORT WORKER SERIES;

(IV) FAMILY SVS CASEWORKER SERIES; AND

(V) SOCIAL WORKER SERIES.

(B) (1) UNDER PILOT PROGRAM,THE ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEMS
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESAND THE OF SHALL COLLABORATE TO ASSIST
STUDENTS IN ESTABLISHING CAREERS IN ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED POSITIONS IN THE
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES.OF

(2) EACH ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM SHALL ENTER INTO A
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESMEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH THE OF
PILOT PROGRAM INCLUDE:FOR THE THAT SHALL

(I) CLEAR PILOT PROGRAMGOALS FOR THE AND ACTIONABLE
GOALS,ITEMS TO MEET THOSE INCLUDING IDENTIFYING SPECIFIC SCHOOLS OR
PILOT PROGRAM;NUMBERS OF STUDENTS TO PARTICIPATE IN THE AND

(II) A PILOT PROGRAM,COMMITMENT TO PUBLICIZE THE
OF:INCLUDING THE AVAILABILITY

1. STIPENDS FOR STUDENTS HIRED TO WORK IN
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED POSITIONS IN THE OF AFTER
SYSTEM;GRADUATION FROM A HIGH SCHOOL IN AN ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL AND

2. THE SCHOLARSHIP.

(C) EACH SHALL:ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM

(1) IDENTIFY STUDENTS WHO MAY BE INTERESTED IN WORKING FOR
STATE SCHOOL;THE AFTER GRADUATING FROM HIGH

(2) PUBLICIZE PILOT PROGRAM,THE INCLUDING EMPHASIZING THE
BENEFITS;CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AND

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

(3) WORK DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESWITH THE OF TO
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESDEVELOP INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES AT THE OF
INTERNSHIPS;AND PROVIDE COURSE CREDIT TO STUDENTS PARTICIPATING IN THE

(4) SCHEDULE AT LEAST ONE CAREER DAY EACH SEMESTER FOR
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESREPRESENTATIVES OF THE OF TO PRESENT TO
STUDENTS IN THE SCHOOL SYSTEM INFORMATION ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESIN ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED POSITIONS IN THE OF AND
QUALIFICATIONS;THE NECESSARY

(5) WORK DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESWITH THE OF TO
IDENTIFY THE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS NECESSARY FOR ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESPOSITIONS IN THE OF AND INCORPORATE
TEACHING THE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS INTO THE CURRICULUM OF A REQUIRED
COURSE; AND

(6) INCLUDE THE DISCUSSION OF CAREER OPPORTUNITIES AT THE
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESOF AS PART OF THE INDIVIDUALIZED CAREER
CAREER COUNSELING PROGRAM MIDDLECOUNSELING SERVICES IN THE FOR AND
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS § 7–127 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(D) THE DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESOF SHALL ASSIST AN ELIGIBLE
(C)LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION.

(E) IF A STUDENT IS HIRED TO WORK IN A ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED POSITION IN
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESTHE OF AFTER GRADUATION FROM A HIGH
SYSTEM, DEPARTMENT HUMANSCHOOL IN AN ELIGIBLE LOCAL SCHOOL THE OF
SERVICES ONE–TIME $500 EMPLOYEE.SHALL AWARD A STIPEND OF TO THE

Subtitle 37. Maryland Loan Assistance Repayment Program for Police Officers AND
PROBATION AGENTS.

18–3701.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[a police]:(b) “Eligible employment” means to work as

(1) A years;officer in the State for at least 2POLICE OR

(2) A AGENT, SUPERVISOR,PAROLE AND PROBATION OR REGIONAL
STATE 2 YEARS.DIRECTOR IN THE FOR AT LEAST

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(c) “Higher education loan” means a loan that is obtained for tuition for
[leading justice].undergraduate study to a degree in criminal law, criminology, or criminal

(d) “Police officer” has the meaning stated in § 3–201 of the Public Safety Article.

(E) “PROBATION AGENT” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL SERVING AS A PAROLE
AGENT, SUPERVISOR,AND PROBATION OR REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR FOR THE
DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETY CORRECTIONAL SERVICES.OF AND

[(e)] (F) “Program” means the Maryland Loan Assistance Repayment Program
PROBATION AGENTS.for Police Officers AND

18–3702.

(a) There is a Maryland Loan Assistance Repayment Program for Police Officers
PROBATION AGENTS in the State.AND

(b) The Office shall distribute funds from the Program to assist in the repayment
of a higher education loan owed by a police officer who:OR PROBATION AGENT

(1) Receives a graduate, professional, or undergraduate degree from a
public college or university in the State;

(2) Obtains eligible employment; and

(3) Satisfies any other criteria established by the Office.

18–3704.

[an annual]The Governor shall include IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN
[$1,500,000 budget] $5,000,000appropriation of at least in the State for the Program.

PROBATION AGENTSSubtitle 38. Maryland Police Officers Scholarship Program.AND

18–3801.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Eligible institution” means a public senior higher education institution in the
State.

(c) “Police officer” has the meaning stated in § 3–201 of the Public Safety Article.

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

(D) “PROBATION AGENT” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL SERVING AS A PAROLE
AGENT, SUPERVISOR,AND PROBATION OR REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR FOR THE
DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETY CORRECTIONAL SERVICES.OF AND

[(d)] (E) “Service obligation” means to work as a police officer OR PROBATION
in the State not less than 5 years during the 8–year period after graduation.AGENT

18–3802.

PROBATION AGENTS(a) There is a Maryland Police Officers ScholarshipAND
Program.

(b) The purpose of the program is to provide tuition assistance for students WHO
ARE:

(1) Attending a degreeAN ELIGIBLE INSTITUTION AND ENROLLED IN
[careerprogram that would further the student’s in law enforcement at an eligible
the] [be]institution with intent to a police officer afterBECOME OR PROBATION AGENT
graduation; or

[Who currently] EMPLOYED [officers attending](2) are policeAS A
AGENT, INSTITUTION,OFFICER OR PROBATION ATTENDING AN ELIGIBLE AND
a degree program that would further the police officer’sENROLLED IN OR PROBATION
OFFICER’S [in institution].career law enforcement at an eligible

(c) The Office shall publicize the availability of the Maryland Police Officers AND
PROBATION AGENTS Scholarship.

18–3803.

[The] EACH YEAR, [annually](a) Office shall select eligible students andTHE
offer a scholarship to each student selected to be used at an eligible institution of the
student’s choice.

PROBATION AGENTS(b) A recipient of the Maryland Police Officers AND
Scholarship shall:

(1) Be a Maryland resident or have graduated from a Maryland high
school;

(2) Be accepted for admission or currently enrolled at an eligible institution
as a full–time or part–time undergraduate or graduate student pursuing a course of study
[in enforcement];or program that would further the recipient’s career law

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) Sign a letter of intent to perform the service obligation on completion of
the recipient’s required studies; and

(4) Satisfy any additional criteria the Commission may establish.

(c) A current police officer shall be eligible for aOR PROBATION AGENT
PROBATION AGENTSMaryland Police Officers Scholarship if they meet theAND
eligibility criteria under subsection (b) of this section.

18–3804.

PROBATION AGENTSThe recipient of a Maryland Police Officers ScholarshipAND
shall repay the Commission the funds received as set forth in § 18–112 of this title if the
recipient does not:

(1) Satisfy the degree requirements of the eligible course of study or
program or fulfill other requirements as provided in this subtitle; or

(2) Perform the service obligation to work as a police officer OR
for at least 5 years during the 8–year period after graduation.PROBATION AGENT

18–3806.

[annually]The Governor shall include in the budget bill an appropriationANNUAL
[$8,500,000] $5,000,000of at least to the Commission to award scholarships under this
subtitle, and the Commission shall use:

[$6,000,000] $2,500,000(1) for scholarships to students intending to
become police officers after graduation; andOR PROBATION AGENTS

(2) $2,500,000 for scholarships for existing police officers OR PROBATION
to attend an eligible institution and remain a police officerAGENTS OR PROBATION
after graduation.AGENT

18–3807.

The Office shall:

PROBATION(1) Publicize the availability of Maryland Police Officers AND
AGENTS Scholarships; and

(2) To the extent practicable, award scholarships under this subtitle in a
manner that reflects ethnic, gender, racial, and geographic diversity.

SUBTITLE 39. PILOT PROGRAM HUMAN SERVICES CAREERS SCHOLARSHIP.FOR

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

18–3901.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “ELIGIBLE COUNTY” MEANS:

(1) BALTIMORE CITY;

(2) BALTIMORE COUNTY; OR

(3) PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.

(C) “ELIGIBLE INSTITUTION” MEANS A PUBLIC ~~SENIOR~~ HIGHER EDUCATION
STATE.INSTITUTION IN THE

~~(D)~~ ~~“NEEDED~~ ~~POSITIONS”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~POSITIONS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~HUMAN~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~COUNTY:~~~~OF~~ ~~IN~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~CASEWORKER;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~CHILD~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~SPECIALIST;~~

~~(3)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~SPECIALIST;~~

~~(4)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~WORKER;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(5)~~ ~~FAMILY~~ ~~SVS~~ ~~CASEWORKER.~~

~~(E)~~ ~~“PILOT~~ ~~PROGRAM”~~ ~~PILOT~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~HUMAN~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOR~~
~~SERVICES~~ ~~CAREERS~~ ~~§~~ ~~2–303~~ ~~HUMAN~~ ~~SERVICES~~~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ARTICLE.~~

~~(F)~~ (D) “SCHOLARSHIP” PILOT PROGRAM HUMANMEANS THE FOR
SERVICES CAREERS SCHOLARSHIP SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS

~~(G)~~ (E) (1) “SERVICE OBLIGATION” MEANS TO WORK IN A ~~NEEDED~~
5 8–YEARTARGETED POSITION FOR A MINIMUM OF YEARS DURING THE PERIOD
GRADUATION.IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING HIGH SCHOOL

(2) “SERVICE OBLIGATION” INCLUDES WORK IN A TARGETED
INSTITUTION.POSITION WHILE A STUDENT IS ATTENDING AN ELIGIBLE

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(F) “TARGETED POSITIONS” MEANS THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS IN THE
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES COUNTY:OF IN AN ELIGIBLE

(1) CHILD SUPPORT SPECIALIST SERIES;

(2) FAMILY INVESTMENT SPECIALIST SERIES;

(3) FAMILY SUPPORT WORKER SERIES;

(4) FAMILY SVS CASEWORKER SERIES; AND

(5) SOCIAL WORKER SERIES.

18–3902.

(A) THERE PILOT PROGRAM HUMAN SERVICES CAREERSIS A FOR
SCHOLARSHIP.

(B) THE SCHOLARSHIPPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE TUITION
ASSISTANCE TO STUDENTS WHO ARE ENROLLED IN A PROGRAM AT AN ELIGIBLE
INSTITUTION THAT WILL ENABLE THE STUDENT TO OBTAIN A CREDENTIAL OR
DEGREE THAT IS NECESSARY TO WORK IN OR FURTHER A CAREER IN A ~~NEEDED~~
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES.TARGETED POSITION IN THE OF

(C) A SCHOLARSHIP SHALL:RECIPIENT

(1) BE MARYLAND MARYLANDA RESIDENT OR A GRADUATE OF A
SCHOOL;HIGH

(2) BE ACCEPTED FOR ADMISSION OR CURRENTLY ENROLLED AT AN
ELIGIBLE INSTITUTION IN A PROGRAM THAT WILL ENABLE THE RECIPIENT TO
OBTAIN A CREDENTIAL OR DEGREE THAT IS NECESSARY TO WORK IN OR FURTHER A
DEPARTMENT HUMANCAREER IN A ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED POSITION IN THE OF
SERVICES;

(3) SIGN A LETTER OF INTENT TO PERFORM THE SERVICE
RECIPIENT’S STUDIES;OBLIGATION ON COMPLETION OF THE REQUIRED

(4) MAINTAIN A CUMULATIVE GRADE POINT AVERAGE OF AT LEAST
2.5 4.0 EQUIVALENT;ON A SCALE OR ITS AND

(5) SATISFY ANY ADDITIONAL CRITERIA ESTABLISHED BY THE
OFFICE DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES.OR THE OF

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

(D) THE 100%ANNUAL SCHOLARSHIP AWARD SHALL BE OF THE
EQUIVALENT ANNUAL TUITION AND MANDATORY FEES AT THE ELIGIBLE
INSTITUTION.

18–3903.

(A) (1) EACH OFFICE DEPARTMENTYEAR THE SHALL WORK WITH THE
HUMAN SERVICES SCHOLARSHIPSOF TO AWARD TO STUDENTS TO BE USED AT AN
INSTITUTION.ELIGIBLE

(2) THE OFFICE DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESAND THE OF SHALL
SCHOLARSHIP,PUBLICIZE THE AVAILABILITY OF THE INCLUDING PROVIDING
SCHOLARSHIPINFORMATION ON THE TO EVERY EMPLOYEE IN A ~~NEEDED~~ TARGETED
POSITION.

(B) (1) ~~(1)~~ THE DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES SHALL:OF

~~(I)~~ ~~(1)~~ (I) IDENTIFY APPLICANTS;AND SELECT ELIGIBLE AND

~~(II)~~ ~~(2)~~ (II) DETERMINE SCHOLARSHIPTHE AMOUNT OF
AWARDS.

(2) THE DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESOF SHALL PRIORITIZE
SCHOLARSHIP PILOTSELECTING APPLICANTS FOR A WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE
PROGRAM HUMAN SERVICES CAREERS § 2–303FOR ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
HUMAN SERVICES ARTICLE.

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~HUMAN~~ ~~SERVICES~~~~OF~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PRIORITIZE~~
~~SCHOLARSHIP~~ ~~PILOT~~~~SELECTING~~ ~~APPLICANTS~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~PARTICIPATED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROGRAM.~~

(C) THE OFFICE SHALL:

(1) AWARD SCHOLARSHIPS TO APPLICANTS SELECTED BY THE
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICESOF IN THE AMOUNTS DETERMINED BY THE
DEPARTMENT HUMAN SERVICES;OF AND

(2) PROVIDE OVERSIGHT RELATED TO THE SERVICE OBLIGATION OF
SCHOLARSHIP.THE

(D) A SCHOLARSHIP OFFICERECIPIENT SHALL REPAY THE THE FUNDS
§ 18–112RECEIVED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE AS SET FORTH IN OF THIS TITLE IF THE
NOT:RECIPIENT DOES

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) SATISFY THE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ELIGIBLE COURSE
OF STUDY OR PROGRAM OR FULFILL OTHER REQUIREMENTS AS PROVIDED IN THIS
SUBTITLE; OR

(2) PERFORM GRADUATION.THE SERVICE OBLIGATION AFTER

18–3904.

FUNDING SCHOLARSHIP STATEFOR THE SHALL BE AS PROVIDED IN THE
BUDGET.

Article – State Personnel and Pensions

32–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) (1) “Eligible employee” means a member of the Employees’ Pension System
or the Employees’ Retirement System who is subject to Selection C (Combination Formula)
as provided in § 22–221 of this article, other than:

(i) an employee of a participating governmental unit or a former
participating governmental unit that has withdrawn; or

(ii) a member of the Employees’ Pension System who transferred
from the Employees’ Retirement System after April 1, 1998.

(2) “Eligible employee” includes:

(i) a member of the Employees’ Pension System who contributes to
a State supplemental plan authorized by an employing institution as defined in § 30–101
of this article; or

(ii) a member of the Employees’ Pension System who is an employee
of the Northeast Maryland Waste Disposal Authority.

(c) “Optional Defined Contribution System” means the system established under
§ 32–201 of this title.

(d) “Participating employee” means an eligible employee who participates in the
Optional Defined Contribution System.

(e) (1) “State supplemental plan” means a plan qualified under the Internal
Revenue Code and:

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 100

(i) administered by the Supplemental Board; or

(ii) authorized for eligible employees by an employing institution as
defined in § 30–101 of this article.

(2) “State supplemental plan” includes:

(i) a salary reduction plan qualified under § 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code;

(ii) a tax sheltered annuity plan qualified under § 403(b) of the
Internal Revenue Code;

(iii) a deferred compensation plan qualified under § 457 of the
Internal Revenue Code; or

(iv) a plan qualified under § 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(f) “Supplemental Board” means the State Board of Trustees of the Maryland
Teachers and State Employees Supplemental Retirement Plans established under §
35–201 of this article.

32–203.

(c) A participating employee’s interest in the plans under the Optional Defined
Contribution System:

(1) shall immediately be 100% vested;

(2) shall be held in trust for the exclusive benefit of the participating
employee, except as otherwise required under § 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code for
investments held under a plan that qualifies under § 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code;
and

(3) may be distributed only at the times, in the manner, to the extent, and
to the individuals that allow the plans to maintain their tax qualified status under the
Internal Revenue Code.

32–204.

The participating employee contributions shall be made as payrolls are paid by
payroll deduction or by a reduction in salary in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code
and as provided by the applicable State supplemental plan.

32–205.

– 17 –

PAGE 18
Ch. 100 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) [For] SUBJECT (3) SUBSECTION,(a) eachTO PARAGRAPH OF THIS FOR
[toparticipating employee who makes contributions under § 32–204 of this subtitle, the
budget,] [may]extent funds are provided in the State the State contribute to theSHALL
applicable State supplemental plan employer contributions an amount equal to the lesser
of the participating employee’s contributions or $600 per fiscal year.

(2) SUBJECT (3) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS IF A
§ 32–204PARTICIPATING EMPLOYEE WHO MAKES CONTRIBUTIONS UNDER OF THIS
STATESUBTITLE PROVIDES DOCUMENTATION TO THE OF THE AMOUNT THE
EMPLOYEE’SEMPLOYEE PAID TOWARD THE HIGHER EDUCATION STUDENT LOAN
YEAR, STATEPAYMENTS DURING THE CURRENT FISCAL THE SHALL CONTRIBUTE TO
STATETHE APPLICABLE SUPPLEMENTAL PLAN EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS AN
EMPLOYEE’SAMOUNT EQUAL TO THE LESSER OF THE PARTICIPATING HIGHER
$600 YEAR.EDUCATION STUDENT LOAN PAYMENTS OR PER CURRENT FISCAL

(3) A STATEPARTICIPATING EMPLOYEE MAY NOT RECEIVE A
(1) (2)CONTRIBUTION UNDER PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS SUBSECTION DURING THE
YEAR.SAME FISCAL

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) The Maryland Higher Education Commission shall work with the Department
of Human Services to award Scholarships from the Pilot Program for Human Services
Careers Scholarship established under § 18–3902 of the Education Article, as enacted by
Section 1 of this Act, in fiscal year 2024.

(b) The Maryland Higher Education Commission:

(1) may not delay making Scholarship awards under subsection (a) of this
section because of required updates to the Maryland College Aid Processing System; and

(2) shall consider the use of paper applications to make Scholarship awards
in fiscal year 2024.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
July 1, 2023. ~~It~~ ~~shall~~ ~~remain~~ ~~effective~~ ~~for~~ ~~a~~ ~~period~~ ~~of~~ ~~5~~ ~~years~~ ~~and,~~ ~~at~~ ~~the~~ ~~end~~ ~~of~~ ~~June~~ ~~30,~~
~~2028,~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act,~~ ~~with~~ ~~no~~ ~~further~~ ~~action~~ ~~required~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~abrogated~~
~~and~~ ~~of~~ ~~no~~ ~~further~~ ~~force~~ ~~and~~ ~~effect.~~

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 18 –