PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 781

Chapter 781

(House Bill 1084)

AN ACT concerning

Natural Resources – Oyster Inspection and Severance Taxes – Increase

FOR the purpose of increasing the amount of the inspection tax levied on marketable
oysters shipped in the shell to any place outside the State; increasing the amount of
the severance tax levied on oysters caught within certain natural oyster bars;
repealing a certain requirement that a certain tax increase be used for the oyster
seed program in a certain manner; requiring that a certain amount of the severance
tax levied be ~~distributed~~ ~~to~~ used by certain county oyster committees; and generally
relating to oyster inspection and severance taxes.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 4–1020(a) through (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

4–1020.

(1)(a) A separate permit shall be obtained for shipping each cargo, truckload,
or other consignment of oysters in the shell out of the State.

(2) [30 cents] $1 [upon]An inspection tax of per bushel shall be levied ON
marketable oysters shipped in the shell to any place outside the State and shall be paid by
the shipper.

(3) The tax imposed by this subsection shall be levied in addition to every
other tax imposed on oysters.

(1) (I) [$1] $2 [upon](b) A severance tax of per bushel shall be levied ON
every bushel of oysters caught within the limits of the natural oyster bars of the State
exclusive of the Potomac River.

(II) The oyster buyer or receiver shall pay the tax to the Department
for deposit to the credit of the Fisheries Research and Development Fund.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 781 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) (I) This section does not prevent any person licensed to catch AND
[his] PERSON’Soysters in the State from selling oysters in the shell directly toSELL THE
a consumer in the State.

(II) 1. [he]If the consumer is a licensed buyer of oysters, THE
shall assume the obligations placed by this subsection on the first buyer of theCONSUMER
[However, if]oysters to remit the tax to the Department.

2. IF the consumer is not a licensed buyer of oysters, the
seller of oysters shall assume this obligation.

(1)(c) All taxes collected under this section shall be credited to the Fisheries
Research and Development Fund and used only for the repletion of the natural oyster bars
of the State.

~~(2)~~ ~~10–CENT~~~~The~~ ~~tax~~ ~~increase~~ ~~effective~~ ~~July~~ ~~1,~~ ~~1982,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~used~~ ~~solely~~
~~[5~~ ~~percent]~~ ~~5%~~~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~oyster~~ ~~seed~~ ~~program,~~ ~~with~~ ~~a~~ ~~minimum~~ ~~of~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~increase~~ ~~being~~ ~~used~~
~~in~~ ~~each~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~counties:~~

~~(I)~~ ~~Anne~~ ~~Arundel;~~

~~(II)~~ ~~Calvert;~~

~~(III)~~ ~~Charles;~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~Dorchester;~~

~~(V)~~ ~~Kent;~~

~~(VI)~~ ~~Queen~~ ~~Anne’s;~~

~~(VII)~~ ~~Somerset;~~

~~(VIII)~~ ~~St.~~ ~~Mary’s;~~

~~(IX)~~ ~~Talbot;~~ ~~and~~

~~(X)~~ ~~Wicomico.~~

~~(3)~~ (2) OF THE SEVERANCE TAX COLLECTED UNDER SUBSECTION
(B) SECTION, $1 $2OF THIS OF EACH COLLECTED SHALL BE ~~DISTRIBUTED~~ ~~TO~~ USED
BY THE COUNTY OYSTER COMMITTEES IN THE FOLLOWING COUNTIES FOR THE
COUNTY:REPLETION OF NATURAL OYSTER BARS LOCATED IN THE WATERS OF THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 781

(I) ANNE ARUNDEL;

(II) BALTIMORE;

~~(II)~~ (III) CALVERT;

~~(III)~~ (IV) CHARLES;

~~(IV)~~ (V) DORCHESTER;

~~(V)~~ (VI) KENT;

~~(VI)~~ (VII) QUEEN ANNE’S;

~~(VII)~~ (VIII) SOMERSET;

~~(VIII)~~ (IX) ST. MARY’S;

~~(IX)~~ (X) TALBOT; AND

~~(X)~~ (XI) WICOMICO.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 3 –