PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 424

Chapter 424

(House Bill 1026)

AN ACT concerning

Prince George’s County – Land Use – Development of Neglected Property

PG 406–23

FOR the purpose of authorizing Prince George’s County to exercise powers of eminent
domain to acquire and develop or redevelop, for a public purpose, certain neglected
property located in the county that has been designated as a transit–oriented
development and is located within a business development district; and generally
relating to eminent domain in Prince George’s County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Land Use
Section 25–101
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2012 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Land Use
Section 25–403
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2012 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Land Use

25–101.

This title applies only in Prince George’s County.

25–403.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “BUSINESS DISTRICT”IMPROVEMENT MEANS A BUSINESS
TITLE 12, SUBTITLE 4IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ARTICLE COUNTY.IN THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 424 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) “NEGLECTED PROPERTY” MEANS IMPROVED OR UNIMPROVED
THAT:REAL PROPERTY

(I) COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, ~~RESIDENTIAL,~~IS ZONED FOR
COUNCIL;OR NONRESIDENTIAL USE BY THE DISTRICT AND

(II) ABANDONED, BLIGHTED, CONDEMNED.HAS BEEN OR

(4) “PURPLE LINE” § 2–103.8HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
TRANSPORTATION ARTICLE.

(5) (I) “TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT” HAS THE MEANING
§ 7–101 TRANSPORTATION ARTICLE.STATED IN OF THE

(II) “TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT” INCLUDES LIGHT
PURPLE LINE PRINCE GEORGE’SRAIL STOPS THAT ARE LOCATED ON THE IN
COUNTY.

(B) THIS STATE–OWNED PROPERTY.SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO

(C) THE COUNTY MAY EXERCISE THE POWER OF EMINENT DOMAIN ON
THAT:NEGLECTED PROPERTY IN AN AREA

(1) TRANSIT–ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT;HAS BEEN DESIGNATED AS A
AND

(2) IS LOCATED IN A BUSINESS ~~DEVELOPMENT~~ IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT.

~~(C)~~ (D) NEGLECTED PROPERTY OBTAINED UNDER THIS SECTION IS
INTENDED TO BE DEVELOPED OR REDEVELOPED FOR AN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COUNTY.PURPOSE IN THE

~~(D)~~ (E) LAND OR PROPERTY TAKEN BY THE COUNTY THROUGH THE
SECTION:EXERCISE OF EMINENT DOMAIN UNDER THIS

(1) PURPOSE,MAY ONLY BE TAKEN FOR A PUBLIC INCLUDING FOR
PURPOSE;PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH A PUBLIC AND

(2) COMPENSATION,MAY NOT BE TAKEN WITHOUT JUST AS AGREED
PARTIES, JURY,ON BETWEEN THE OR AWARDED BY A BEING FIRST PAID OR
COMPENSATION,TENDERED TO THE PARTY ENTITLED TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
TITLE 12 REAL PROPERTY ARTICLE.OF THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 424

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 3 –