PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 398

Chapter 398

(House Bill 1059)

AN ACT concerning

Harford County – Alcoholic Beverages – Performing Arts Theater License

FOR the purpose of establishing in Harford County a performing arts theater beer and wine
license that authorizes the holder to sell or serve beer and wine in certain performing
arts theaters at retail for on–premises consumption; and generally relating to
alcoholic beverages licenses in Harford County.

BY renumbering
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 22–1005.2
to be Section 22–1005.3
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 22–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 22–1005.2
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 22–1005.2 of Article – Alcoholic Beverages of the Annotated Code of
Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 22–1005.3.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

22–102.

This title applies only in Harford County.

22–1005.2.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 398 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) IN SECTION, “PERFORMING THEATER” AREA,THIS ARTS MEANS AN A
BUILDING, PLAYS, ACTS, DRAMAS,OR A STRUCTURE DESIGNED AND USED FOR
CONCERTS, OR HISTRIONICS BY ACTORS OR ACTRESSES PERFORMING ON A STAGE
FILMS.OR THE SHOWING OF MOVIES OR

(B) THERE LICENSE.IS A PERFORMING ARTS THEATER BEER AND WINE

(C) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE THE LICENSE FOR USE ON THE PREMISES OF A
ORGANIZATION.PERFORMING ARTS THEATER OPERATED BY A NONPROFIT

(D) THE LICENSE AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO SELL OR SERVE BEER AND
ON–PREMISES CONSUMPTION.WINE AT RETAIL FOR

(E) THE WINE:LICENSE HOLDER MAY SELL OR SERVE BEER AND

(1) 1 PERFORMANCE;HOUR BEFORE AND AFTER A

(2) PERFORMANCE;DURING A

(3) INTERMISSION;DURING AN AND

(4) 1 1DURING A RECEPTION HOUR BEFORE OR HOUR AFTER A
PERFORMANCE.

(F) THE LOCATION.LICENSE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER

(G) THE LICENSE HOLDER SHALL PURCHASE BEER AND WINE FROM ~~A~~
~~RETAIL~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~OR~~ AN AUTHORIZED AND LICENSED WHOLESALER ~~OR~~
~~MANUFACTURER.~~

(H) ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE UNDER THIS SECTION DOES NOT PROHIBIT THE
BOARD CLASS CFROM ISSUING A PER DIEM LICENSE THAT APPLIES TO THE
THEATER.PERFORMING ARTS

(I) THE LICENSE HOLDER SHALL SERVE OR OFFER FOR SALE SNACKS AT
SOLD.ALL TIMES WHEN BEER AND WINE ARE

(J) THE $500.ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IS

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 2 –