PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 611

Chapter 611

(House Bill 1087)

AN ACT concerning

Wicomico County – Sunday Hunting and Archery Hunting Safety Zones

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Department of Natural Resources to allow a person to
hunt game birds and mammals on certain Sundays, subject to certain time
restrictions, in Wicomico County; authorizing the Department to allow Sunday
hunting on certain public land in Wicomico County, subject to certain time
restrictions; adding Wicomico County to the list of counties in which the safety zone
for archery hunters extends a certain distance from certain structures; and generally
relating to hunting in Wicomico County.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section ~~10–410(a)(1)(i)~~ 10–410(a)(1), (4), (5), and (15) and (g)(3)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2012 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 10–410(g)(1) and (2)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2012 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

10–410.

(a) (1) (i) The Department may allow a person to hunt on each Sunday of
the game bird and game mammal seasons in:

1. Allegany County;

2. Subject to subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, Calvert
County, from 30 minutes before sunrise until 10:30 a.m.;

3. Subject to subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, Caroline
County, from 30 minutes before sunrise until 10:30 a.m.;

4. Cecil County;
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 611 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

5. Subject to subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, Charles
County, from 30 minutes before sunrise until 10:30 a.m.;

6. Subject to subparagraph (iv) of this paragraph, Dorchester
County, from 30 minutes before sunrise until 10:30 a.m.;

7. Garrett County;

8. Subject to subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, Queen
Anne’s County, from 30 minutes before sunrise until 10:30 a.m.;

9. St. Mary’s County;

10. Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, Somerset
[and]County, from 30 minutes before sunrise until 10:30 a.m.;

County;11. Washington AND

12. SUBJECT (V)TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, WICOMICO COUNTY, 30 10:30FROM MINUTES BEFORE SUNRISE UNTIL
A.M.

(ii) The time restrictions under subparagraph (i)10 of this paragraph
do not apply:

1. On each Sunday of the deer firearms season; and

2. On the last three Sundays in October and the first two
Sundays in November of the deer bow hunting season.

(iii) The time restrictions under subparagraph (i)2, 3, 5, and 8 of this
paragraph do not apply:

1. On each Sunday during the deer firearms season;

2. On the last three Sundays in October and the first two
Sundays in November during the deer bow hunting season; and

3. On each Sunday of the spring turkey hunting season.

(iv) The time restrictions under subparagraph (i)6 of this paragraph
do not apply:

1. On each Sunday of the deer hunting seasons from the first
Sunday in October through the second Sunday in January, inclusive; and

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 611

2. On each Sunday of the spring turkey hunting season.

(V) THE (I)12TIME RESTRICTIONS UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF
APPLY:THIS PARAGRAPH DO NOT

1. ON SUNDAYTHE FIRST OF THE DEER FIREARMS
SEASON; AND

2. ON SUNDAYS OCTOBERTHE LAST THREE IN AND THE
SUNDAYS NOVEMBER SEASON.FIRST TWO IN OF THE DEER BOW HUNTING

(4) The Department may allow a person to hunt deer during the deer
firearms season:

(i) On each Sunday in:

1. Harford County; and

2. Worcester County; AND

County[;(ii) On the first Sunday in Anne Arundel and

(iii) In Wicomico County, on:

1. The first Sunday; and

2. The second Sunday from 30 minutes before sunrise until
a.m].10:30

(5) The Department may allow a person to hunt deer during the deer bow
hunting season on:

(i) The last three Sundays in October and the first two Sundays in
November in:

1. Harford County; AND

[Wicomico2. County; and

3.] Worcester County; and

(ii) The first Sunday in November in Anne Arundel County.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 611 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(15) (i) The Department may not allow a person to hunt on public land
designated for hunting by the Department on Sunday except in:

1. Allegany County;

2. Cecil County;

3. Garrett County;

4. St. Mary’s County;

5. Washington County;

~~WICOMICO~~ ~~COUNTY;~~6.

~~7.~~ Dorchester County, for turkey during the spring turkey
hunting season;

~~[7.]~~ ~~8.~~Frederick County, for deer from the first Sunday in
October through the second Sunday in January of the following year, inclusive; ~~and~~

~~[8.]~~ ~~9.~~Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, Somerset
County, on public land leased to a hunt club from 30 minutes before sunrise until 10:30
a.m.; AND

9. SUBJECT (III)TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, WICOMICO COUNTY, 30 10:30FROM MINUTES BEFORE SUNRISE UNTIL
A.M.

~~[(i)8]~~ ~~(I)9~~(ii) The time restrictions under subparagraph of this
paragraph do not apply:

1. On each Sunday of the deer firearms season; and

2. On the last three Sundays in October and the first two
Sundays in November of the deer bow hunting season.

(III) THE (I)9TIME RESTRICTIONS UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF
APPLY:THIS PARAGRAPH DO NOT

1. ON SUNDAYTHE FIRST OF THE DEER FIREARMS
SEASON; AND

2. ON SUNDAYS OCTOBERTHE LAST THREE IN AND THE
SUNDAYS NOVEMBER SEASON.FIRST TWO IN OF THE DEER BOW HUNTING

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 611

(g) (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, a
person, other than the owner or occupant, while hunting for any wild bird or mammal may
not shoot or discharge any firearm or other deadly weapon within 150 yards, known as the
“safety zone”, of a dwelling house, residence, church, or other building or camp occupied by
human beings, or shoot at any wild bird or mammal while it is within this area, without
the specific advance permission of the owner or occupant.

(2) A person, while hunting for any wild bird or mammal, may not shoot or
discharge any firearm within 300 yards of a public or nonpublic school during school hours
or at a time when a school–approved activity is taking place.

(3) (i) For archery hunters in Allegany County, Calvert County, Carroll
County, Cecil County, Frederick County, Garrett County, Harford County, Montgomery
[or] WICOMICO COUNTY,County, St. Mary’s County, Washington County, the safetyOR
zone described in paragraph (1) of this subsection extends for 50 yards from a dwelling
house, residence, church, or any other building or camp occupied by human beings.

(ii) For archery hunters in Anne Arundel County, the safety zone
described in paragraph (1) of this subsection extends for 100 yards from a dwelling house,
residence, church, or any other building or camp occupied by human beings.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 5 –