PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 608

Chapter 608

(House Bill 1109)

AN ACT concerning

Prince George’s County – Economic Development – Business Improvement
Districts

PG 407–23

FOR the purpose of authorizing Prince George’s County ~~or~~ ~~a~~ ~~municipal~~ ~~corporation~~ ~~in~~
~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ to create certain business improvement districts; requiring
the county ~~or~~ ~~a~~ ~~municipal~~ ~~corporation~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~county~~ to adopt certain local laws to
provide for the creation and organization of a district; providing for the imposition of
a certain tax in a certain manner under certain circumstances; removing Prince
George’s County from the scope of law governing the establishment of business
improvement districts; and generally relating to business improvement districts and
district corporations in Prince George’s County.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 12–402.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 12–901 through 12–912 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 9. Prince
George’s County – Business Improvement Districts”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

12–402.1.

PRINCE GEORGE’SThis subtitle does not apply in Montgomery County OR
COUNTY.

SUBTITLE 9. PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY – BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS.

12–901.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 608 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “BOARD” MEANS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF A DISTRICT
CORPORATION.

(C) “COMMERCIAL TENANT” MEANS A LESSEE OR OTHER LAWFUL
OCCUPANT, OWNER,OTHER THAN THE OF NONEXEMPT PROPERTY WITHIN A
DISTRICT.

(D) “CONDOMINIUM” § 11–101 REALHAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
PROPERTY ARTICLE.

(E) “COOPERATIVE CORPORATION”HOUSING HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
§ 5–6B–01 CORPORATIONS ASSOCIATIONS ARTICLE.OF THE AND

(F) “DISTRICT” MEANS A BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ESTABLISHED
SUBTITLE.UNDER THIS

(G) “DISTRICT CORPORATION” MEANS A BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
SUBTITLE.DISTRICT CORPORATION FORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS

(H) “FORMATION COMMITTEE”STEERING MEANS THE GROUP OF
STAKEHOLDERS RESPONSIBLE FOR LEADING THE FORMATION OF A DISTRICT AND
§ 12–908 SUBTITLE.PREPARING THE APPLICATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

(I) “HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION” § 11B–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
REAL PROPERTY ARTICLE.OF THE

(J) “MEMBERS DISTRICT”OF THE MEANS OWNERS OF NONEXEMPT
PROPERTY, TENANTS, DISTRICT.COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTS IN THE

(K) “NONEXEMPT PROPERTY” MEANS ALL REAL PROPERTY THAT IS NOT
EXCEPT:EXEMPT FROM PAYING REAL PROPERTY TAXES

(1) CONDOMINIUM UNITS AND COOPERATIVE HOUSING
CORPORATION UNITS THAT EXIST ON OR BEFORE THE DATE OF ESTABLISHMENT OF
DISTRICT;A

(2) ASSOCIATIONS;HOMEOWNERS OR

(3) RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY WITH FEWER THAN FOUR DWELLING
UNITS.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 608

(L) “RESIDENT” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHOSE PRIMARY RESIDENCE IS
DISTRICT,WITHIN A INCLUDING A RENTER OR AN OWNER OF RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE INDIVIDUAL RESIDES ON NONEXEMPT
PROPERTY.PROPERTY OR EXEMPT

12–902.

THE TO:LEGISLATIVE PURPOSES OF THIS SUBTITLE ARE

(1) PROVIDE FOR THE CREATION OF BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY;DISTRICTS WITHIN AND

(2) RESIDENTS,PROMOTE THE GENERAL WELFARE OF THE
EMPLOYERS, EMPLOYEES, OWNERS, TENANTS,PROPERTY COMMERCIAL
CONSUMERS, AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC WITHIN THE GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF THE
DISTRICTS.BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT

12–903.

THIS PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.SUBTITLE APPLIES ONLY IN

12–904.

(A) SUBJECT § 12–909TO A PUBLIC HEARING UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE
§ 12–902AND TO ACCOMPLISH A LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE LISTED IN OF THIS
SUBTITLE, THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~
~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ MAY ADOPT A LOCAL LAW TO CREATE A BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
SUBTITLE.DISTRICT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS

(B) SUBSECTION (A) SELF–EXECUTINGOF THIS SECTION IS AND FULLY
AUTHORIZES THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ TO
DISTRICT,ESTABLISH A NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER STATUTORY OR CHARTER
PROVISION.

(C) A (A)LOCAL LAW ADOPTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION
INCLUDE:SHALL

(1) CORPORATION;THE NAME OF THE DISTRICT

(2) THAT THE DISTRICT CORPORATION IS FORMED UNDER THIS
SUBTITLE;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 608 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) NAMES, ADDRESSES,THE AND TERMS OF OFFICE OF THE INITIAL
CORPORATION;MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE DISTRICT

(4) THE ADDRESS OF THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT
CORPORATION;

(5) FORMED;THE PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE DISTRICT IS

(6) DISTRICT,THE POWERS OF THE SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATIONS ON
SUBTITLE;THE POWERS OF DISTRICTS UNDER THIS AND

(7) APPLICABLE,IF ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF THE DISTRICT
CORPORATION.

12–905.

(A) A CORPORATION.BOARD OF DIRECTORS SHALL GOVERN THE DISTRICT

(B) (1) SUBJECT (2) (4)TO PARAGRAPHS THROUGH OF THIS
SUBSECTION:

(I) (II) PARAGRAPH,EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN ITEM OF THIS
MEMBERS;THE BOARD OF A DISTRICT CORPORATION CONSISTS OF AT LEAST NINE
OR

(II) THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~A~~ ~~DISTRICT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ MAY
DETERMINE A DIFFERENT NUMBER OF MEMBERS FOR THE BOARD IF THE DISTRICT
IS CONNECTED WITH A BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT IN ANOTHER COUNTY OR
DISTRICT COLUMBIA.STATE OR IN THE OF

(2) (I) THE BOARD SHALL BE REPRESENTATIVE OF PROPERTY
OWNERS, OWNERS, RESIDENTS,BUSINESS AND REPRESENTATIVES OF THE LOCAL
JURISDICTIONS WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF THE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT.

(II) IT SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INITIAL BOARD
DISTRICT’SOF THE BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT TO DETERMINE IN THE
STRUCTURE,BYLAWS THE SPECIFIC DETAILS PERTAINING TO BOARD INCLUDING
POSITIONS, TERMS, PROCEDURES.THE SPECIFIC NUMBER OF AND VOTING

(3) THE BOARD SHALL RETAIN AS NONVOTING MEMBERS THE
SENATE MARYLAND HOUSEMEMBER OF THE OF AND MEMBERS OF THE OF

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 608

DELEGATES WHO REPRESENT THE LEGISLATIVE DISTRICT WHERE A DISTRICT
ESTABLISHED.CORPORATION IS

(4) (I) BOARD SEATS SHALL BE ELECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AN
ELECTION PROCESS THAT IS ESTABLISHED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE
COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DISTRICT~~ ~~IS~~
~~LOCATED.~~

(II) TO PRACTICABLE,THE EXTENT THE ELECTION PROCESS
SHALL REFLECT THE DIVERSITY OF BUSINESSES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS IN
DISTRICT.THE

(C) FROM MEMBERS,AMONG ITS THE BOARD SHALL ELECT A CHAIR AND
OFFICERS.OTHER

(D) (1) A MAJORITY OF THE VOTING MEMBERS OF THE BOARD IS A
QUORUM.

(2) THE BOARD MAY ACT ON A RESOLUTION ONLY BY THE
MEMBERS.AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF A MAJORITY OF THE VOTING

(E) A BOARD:MEMBER OF THE

(1) BOARD;MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
BUT

(2) SHALL BE REIMBURSED FOR EXPENSES INCURRED IN
MEMBER’S DUTIES.PERFORMING THE

(F) THE RESOLUTION.BOARD SHALL EXERCISE ITS POWERS BY

(G) THE BOARD SHALL FILE AN ANNUAL REPORT WITH THE GOVERNING
BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ THAT
INCLUDES:

(1) YEAR;A FINANCIAL STATEMENT FOR THE PRECEDING

(2) A PROPOSED OPERATING BUDGET FOR THE CURRENT FISCAL
YEAR;

(3) PLAN;ANY PROPOSED REVISIONS TO THE BUSINESS AND

(4) A NARRATIVE STATEMENT OR CHART SHOWING THE RESULTS OF
OBJECTIVES.OPERATIONS IN COMPARISON TO STATED GOALS AND
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 608 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

12–906.

THE NET EARNINGS OF A DISTRICT CORPORATION MAY BENEFIT ONLY THE
CORPORATION.DISTRICT

12–907.

(A) (1) EXCEPT INCORPORATION,AS LIMITED BY ITS ARTICLES OF A
SUBTITLE.DISTRICT CORPORATION HAS ALL THE POWERS SET FORTH IN THIS

(2) A MAY:DISTRICT CORPORATION

(I) RECEIVE MONEY FROM ITS INCORPORATING COUNTY ~~OR~~
~~CORPORATION,~~ STATE, UNITS,~~MUNICIPAL~~ THE OTHER GOVERNMENTAL OR
ORGANIZATIONS;NONPROFIT

(II) SERVICES;CHARGE FEES FOR ITS

(III) HAVE EMPLOYEES AND CONSULTANTS AS THE DISTRICT
NECESSARY;CORPORATION CONSIDERS AND

(IV) UNITS.USE THE SERVICES OF OTHER GOVERNMENTAL

(B) A DISTRICT CORPORATION SHALL OPERATE AND EXERCISE ITS POWERS
SOLELY TO ACCOMPLISH ONE OR MORE OF THE LEGISLATIVE PURPOSES OF THIS
SUBTITLE.

12–908.

(A) THE FORMATION STEERING COMMITTEE SEEKING TO ESTABLISH A
DISTRICT CORPORATION SHALL SUBMIT APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTATION AS
(B) TO:DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION

~~(1)~~ COUNTY;THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROPOSED~~ ~~DISTRICT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~LOCATED~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~COUNTY,~~~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GOVERNING~~ ~~BODY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~CORPORATION.~~

(B) THE APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION
(A) CONTAIN:OF THIS SECTION SHALL

(1) FORTH:A STATEMENT SETTING

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 608

(I) THE PROPOSED NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE DISTRICT
CORPORATION; AND

(II) THE STREET ADDRESS OF EACH OWNER OF NONEXEMPT
ASCERTAINABLE,PROPERTY AND TO THE EXTENT REASONABLY EACH COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT;TENANT WITHIN THE PROPOSED

(2) A STATEMENT EXPRESSING THE INTENT TO ESTABLISH A
51%DISTRICT CORPORATION THAT IS SIGNED BY OWNERS OF AT LEAST OF THE
AND,TOTAL NUMBER OF PARCELS OF NONEXEMPT PROPERTY SUBJECT TO
(C) SECTION,SUBSECTION OF THIS A DESIGNATED BOARD MEMBER OF A
CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING CORPORATION WITHIN THE PROPOSED
DISTRICT;

(3) 5–YEAR CONTAINS:A PROPOSED BUSINESS PLAN THAT

(I) DISTRICT;THE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE PROPOSED

(II) THE ANNUAL PROPOSED BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT’SDISTRICT TAX FOR THE PROPOSED COMMON OPERATIONS AND THE
MEMBER’S TAX;FORMULA USED TO DETERMINE EACH DISTRICT AND

(III) START–UPTHE MAXIMUM AMOUNT AND THE NATURE OF
DISTRICT’S ESTABLISHMENT;COSTS INCURRED BEFORE THE

(4) ASSESSOR’SA TAX MAP OF THE GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF THE
DISTRICT;PROPOSED

(5) A LIST OF THE PROPOSED INITIAL BOARD OF THE PROPOSED
CORPORATION;DISTRICT

(6) THE PROPOSED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND THE BYLAWS
CORPORATION;OF THE DISTRICT AND

(7) FOR ALL NONEXEMPT PROPERTY WITHIN THE PROPOSED
DISTRICT:

(I) OWNER;THE NAME AND MAILING ADDRESS OF EACH AND

(II) VALUE.THE MOST RECENT ASSESSED

(C) (1) NOTWITHSTANDING TITLE,ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS
(2) SUBSECTION,SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A CONDOMINIUM OR
– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 608 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

COOPERATIVE HOUSING CORPORATION THAT IS LOCATED IN THE PROPOSED
CORPORATION.DISTRICT MAY PETITION TO JOIN THE DISTRICT

(2) A CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING CORPORATION
(1)DESCRIBED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION MAY PETITION TO JOIN
IF:THE DISTRICT ONLY

(I) THE CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING
BOARD;CORPORATION IS GOVERNED BY A

(II) CORPORATION;THE BOARD VOTES TO JOIN THE DISTRICT
AND

(III) THE BOARD HAS A REPRESENTATIVE MEMBER OF THE
(B)(2)BOARD SIGN THE APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTS REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION
SECTION.OF THIS

(3) FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE VOTES CAST UNDER SUBSECTION
(B)(2) SECTION:OF THIS

(I) A CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING
PARCEL;CORPORATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED A SINGLE AND

(II) THE DECISION REACHED BY THE BOARD SHALL
CONSTITUTE THE VOTE OF THE CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING
CORPORATION.

(D) WITHIN 45 DAYS AFTER RECEIVING ALL APPROPRIATE
(B) SECTION,DOCUMENTATION UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS THE GOVERNING BODY
OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ SHALL SCHEDULE
APPLICATION.A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE

12–909.

(A) AT 21 HEARING,LEAST CALENDAR DAYS BEFORE THE PUBLIC THE
GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~
SHALL PUBLISH NOTICE OF THE PUBLIC HEARING IN A NEWSPAPER OF GENERAL
DISTRICT.CIRCULATION WITHIN THE GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF THE PROPOSED

(B) THE FORMATION STEERING COMMITTEE SEEKING TO ESTABLISH A
DISTRICT SHALL SEND NOTICE OF THE PUBLIC HEARING AND A SUMMARY OF THE
APPLICATION TO EACH OWNER OF NONEXEMPT PROPERTY AND TO THE EXTENT

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 608

ASCERTAINABLE,REASONABLY EACH COMMERCIAL TENANT OF NONEXEMPT
OF:PROPERTY WITHIN THE PROPOSED DISTRICT BY THE EARLIER

(1) 90 HEARING;AT LEAST DAYS BEFORE THE PUBLIC OR

(2) 20%WHEN OWNERS OF AT LEAST OF THE TOTAL NUMBER OF
PARCELS OF NONEXEMPT PROPERTY EXPRESS THE INTENT TO ESTABLISH A
DISTRICT.

(C) BEFORE HEARING,THE PUBLIC THE APPLICATION SHALL BE MADE
AVAILABLE FOR REVIEW DURING NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS IN AT LEAST ONE
DISTRICT.LOCATION IN THE PROPOSED

(D) WITHIN 10 HEARING,CALENDAR DAYS AFTER THE PUBLIC IF THE
GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~
DETERMINES, BODY,IN THE SOLE DISCRETION OF THE GOVERNING THAT THE NEEDS
SUBTITLE,OF THE DISTRICT MEET A PURPOSE OF THIS THE GOVERNING BODY MAY
§ 12–904 SUBTITLE.AUTHORIZE THE DISTRICT IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

12–910.

(A) WITHIN 10 CALENDAR DAYS AFTER THE AUTHORIZATION OF THE
DISTRICT BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~COUNTY,~~~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ THE DISTRICT CORPORATION SHALL PROVIDE THE
GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~
ROLL.WITH A PRELIMINARY BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT TAX

(B) (1) THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ SHALL IMPOSE A BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
DISTRICT.TAX TO PROVIDE FUNDS FOR THE OPERATION OF THE

(2) THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~
~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ SHALL IMPOSE ON MEMBERS OF THE DISTRICT WHO
ARE OWNERS OF NONEXEMPT PROPERTY THE DISTRICT TAX AT A RATE SPECIFIED
BODY.BY THE BOARD AND APPROVED BY THE GOVERNING

(3) THE TAX IMPOSED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION MAY NOT COUNT
CAP.AGAINST A COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ TAX

(C) THE DISTRICT TAX SHALL BE COLLECTED IN THE SAME MANNER AS
REAL PROPERTY TAXES ARE COLLECTED AND DISTRIBUTED EACH QUARTER TO THE
DISTRICT.

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 608 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(D) A DISTRICT SHALL REIMBURSE THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY
~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ FOR THE COSTS INCURRED IN
TAX.COLLECTING THE DISTRICT

12–911.

(A) AN ESTABLISHED DISTRICT MAY EXPAND THE GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF
IF:THE DISTRICT

(1) A PETITION FOR INCLUSION IS SUBMITTED FROM OWNERS OF AT
51% AND,LEAST OF THE TOTAL NUMBER OF PARCELS OF NONEXEMPT PROPERTY
(B) SECTION,SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION OF THIS A DESIGNATED BOARD MEMBER OF
A CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING CORPORATION PROPOSED FOR
DISTRICT;INCLUSION IN THE

(2) (1)THE PETITION UNDER ITEM OF THIS SUBSECTION IS ACCEPTED
CORPORATION;BY A MAJORITY VOTE OF THE BOARD OF THE DISTRICT AND

(3) DOCUMENTS, APPLICABLE,THE APPROPRIATE AS ARE
§ 12–908 §SUBMITTED UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE AND A HEARING IS HELD UNDER
12–909 SUBTITLE.OF THIS

(B) (1) NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS TITLE AND
(2) SUBSECTION,SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A CONDOMINIUM OR
COOPERATIVE HOUSING CORPORATION THAT IS LOCATED IN THE PROPOSED
EXPANDED GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF THE DISTRICT MAY PETITION TO JOIN THE
EXPANSION.

(2) A CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING CORPORATION
(1)DESCRIBED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION MAY PETITION TO JOIN
IF:THE EXPANSION ONLY

(I) THE CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING
BOARD;CORPORATION IS GOVERNED BY A

(II) CORPORATION;THE BOARD VOTES TO JOIN THE DISTRICT
AND

(III) THE BOARD HAS A REPRESENTATIVE MEMBER OF THE
§ 12–908BOARD SIGN THE APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTS REQUIRED UNDER OF THIS
SUBTITLE.

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 608

(3) FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE VOTES CAST UNDER SUBSECTION
(A)(1) SECTION:OF THIS

(I) A CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING
PARCEL;CORPORATION SHALL BE CONSIDERED A SINGLE AND

(II) THE DECISION REACHED BY THE BOARD SHALL
CONSTITUTE THE VOTE OF THE CONDOMINIUM OR COOPERATIVE HOUSING
CORPORATION.

12–912.

(A) THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~ ~~CORPORATION~~
~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ IN WHICH A DISTRICT IS ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE
SHALL:

(1) REVIEW THE EFFECTIVENESS AND DESIRABILITY OF CONTINUING
3THE DISTRICT EVERY YEARS FROM THE TIME THE DISTRICT IS AUTHORIZED BY
§ 12–904 SUBTITLE;LOCAL LAW UNDER OF THIS AND

(2) DEVELOP POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR EVALUATING THE
DESIRABILITY OF CONTINUING THE DISTRICT IF REQUESTED BY MEMBERS OF THE
DISTRICT.

(B) IF THE CONTINUING EXISTENCE OF THE DISTRICT IS NOT APPROVED BY
BODY:THE GOVERNING

(1) THE DISTRICT SHALL CEASE TO EXIST AS DIRECTED BY THE
BODY;GOVERNING AND

(2) THE DISTRICT CORPORATION SHALL CONTINUE ITS EXISTENCE
ONLY AS LONG AS NECESSARY TO TERMINATE OPERATION IN A REASONABLE
MANNER.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 11 –