PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 590

Chapter 590

(House Bill 1194)

AN ACT concerning

Town of Sharpsburg – Parking of Vehicles – Restrictions

FOR the purpose of prohibiting a person from parking certain vehicles in the Town of
Sharpsburg, Washington County, subject to a certain exception; and generally
relating to the parking of vehicles in the Town of Sharpsburg, Washington County.

BY adding to
Article – Transportation
Section 21–1011
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Transportation

21–1011.

(A) (1) THIS APPLIES:SECTION

(I) TO A VEHICLE REGISTERED OR CAPABLE OF BEING
REGISTERED:

1. OTHER § 13–917 ARTICLE,THAN UNDER OF THIS AS A
CLASS E (TRUCK) ARTICLE;VEHICLE UNDER THIS

2. AS CLASS F (TRACTOR)A VEHICLE UNDER THIS
ARTICLE;

3. AS CLASS G (TRAILER)A VEHICLE UNDER THIS
ARTICLE;

4. AS CLASS H (SCHOOL BUS)A VEHICLE UNDER THIS
ARTICLE; AND

5. AS CLASS P (PASSENGER BUS)A VEHICLE UNDER
ARTICLE;THIS AND

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 590 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) ONLY TOWN SHARPSBURG, WASHINGTONIN THE OF
COUNTY.

(2) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO ANY VEHICLE THAT IS OF A
REGISTERED:TYPE CAPABLE OF BEING

(I) AS CLASS A (PASSENGER) § 13–912A VEHICLE UNDER OF
ARTICLE;THIS OR

(II) AS CLASS E (TRUCK) § 13–917A VEHICLE UNDER OF THIS
ARTICLE.

(B) (1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS A
HIGHWAY.PERSON MAY NOT PARK A VEHICLE ON ANY STREET OR

(2) THIS SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY IF THE PARKING OF THE
VEHICLE.VEHICLE IS ESSENTIAL TO THE IMMEDIATE USE THEN BEING MADE OF THE

(C) (1) IN TRAILER,THE CASE OF A COMBINATION TRACTOR AND A
PERSON WHO VIOLATES THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO A SEPARATE FINE FOR EACH
VEHICLE.

(2) FOR THE PURPOSE OF DETERMINING THE PENALTY UNDER THIS
SECTION, OFFENSE.EACH DAY OF A VIOLATION IS A SEPARATE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 2 –