PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 157

Chapter 157

(House Bill 1200)

AN ACT concerning

Elections – Election Judges – Minimum Compensation

FOR the purpose of establishing a minimum training course compensation and minimum
daily compensation for election judges; requiring the State Board of Elections to
reimburse each local board a certain amount of certain compensation that is paid to
each returning election judge and to develop and implement a certain market
campaign; and generally relating to compensation for election judges.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Election Law
Section 10–205
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Election Law

10–205.

(A) IN SECTION, “COMPENSATION”THIS INCLUDES STIPENDS FOR
TRANSPORTATION, TRAINING, PAYMENTS.AND BONUS

[(a)] (B) (1) ~~A~~ ~~local~~ ~~board~~ ~~may~~ ~~fix~~ ~~the~~ ~~compensation~~ ~~of~~ ~~election~~ ~~judges~~ ~~within~~
~~the~~ ~~limits~~ ~~authorized~~ ~~for~~ ~~this~~ ~~purpose~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~county’s~~ ~~governing~~ ~~body.~~

(I) THE COUNTY GOVERNING BODY SHALL PROVIDE
SUFFICIENT FUNDING TO MEET THE MINIMUM COMPENSATION LEVELS REQUIRED
SECTION.UNDER THIS

(II) WITHIN THE LIMITS AUTHORIZED BY THE COUNTY
BODY,GOVERNING A LOCAL BOARD MAY FIX THE COMPENSATION OF ELECTION
JUDGES ABOVE THE MINIMUM COMPENSATION LEVELS REQUIRED UNDER THIS
SECTION.

for:(2) A local board shall pay an election judge

(I) §EACH COURSE OF INSTRUCTION REQUIRED UNDER
10–206(G)(1) COMPLETES;OF THIS SUBTITLE THAT THE ELECTION JUDGE AND
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 157 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) each election day and each early voting day that the election
judge actually serves.

(3) (I) ~~THE~~ FOR EACH ELECTION JUDGE WHO HAS NOT
JUDGE,PREVIOUSLY SERVED AS AN ELECTION THE COMPENSATION FOR EACH
ELECTION DAY AND EACH EARLY VOTING DAY ACTUALLY SERVED ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~BE~~ ~~LESS~~
$250 ~~JUDGE.~~~~THAN~~ SHALL BE AT LEAST PER DAY ~~FOR~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~ELECTION~~

(II) FOR EACH ELECTION JUDGE WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY SERVED
JUDGE,AS AN ELECTION THE COMPENSATION FOR EACH ELECTION DAY AND EACH
$100EARLY VOTING DAY ACTUALLY SERVED SHALL BE AT LEAST MORE PER DAY
THAN THE COMPENSATION PROVIDED TO AN ELECTION JUDGE WHO HAS NOT
JUDGE.PREVIOUSLY SERVED AS AN ELECTION

(4) THE COMPENSATION FOR EACH COMPLETED COURSE OF
§ 10–206(G)(1)INSTRUCTION REQUIRED UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~BE~~
$50.~~LESS~~ ~~THAN~~ SHALL BE AT LEAST

(C) THE STATE BOARD $50SHALL REIMBURSE EACH LOCAL BOARD FOR OF
(B)(3)(II)THE EXTRA COMPENSATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
JUDGE.SECTION THAT IS PAID TO EACH RETURNING ELECTION

(D) (1) THE STATE BOARD SHALL DEVELOP AND PROVIDE TO THE LOCAL
BOARDS A MARKETING CAMPAIGN TO RECRUIT INDIVIDUALS TO SERVE AS ELECTION
STATE.JUDGES IN POLLING PLACES IN THE

(2) THE SHALL:MARKETING CAMPAIGN

(I) DISSEMINATE INFORMATION ON THE IMPORTANCE OF
JUDGES;ELECTION

(II) DISSEMINATE INFORMATION ON HOW TO APPLY TO BE AN
JUDGE, REQUIREMENTS, COMPENSATION;ELECTION ELIGIBILITY AND AND

(III) POPULATIONS,TARGET DIVERSE VOTER INCLUDING
INDIVIDUALS.MULTILINGUAL

[(b) (1) In Allegany County, the compensation for each day actually served may
not be less than:

(i) $100 per day for each chief election judge; and

(ii) $80 per day for every other election judge.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 157

(2) (i) In Baltimore City, the compensation for each election day or
early voting day actually served shall be:

1. not less than $200 per day for each chief election judge;
and

2. not less than $150 per day for every other election judge.

(ii) 1. In Baltimore City, except as provided in subsubparagraph
2 of this subparagraph, an election judge shall receive $20 as compensation for completing
the course of instruction required under § 10–206(g)(1) of this subtitle.

2. Unless the local board excuses the election judge from
service, an election judge who fails to serve on election day or on an early voting day may
not receive the compensation authorized under this subparagraph.

(3) In Baltimore County, the compensation for each election day or early
voting day actually served shall be:

(i) $225 per day for each chief election judge; and

(ii) $162.50 per day for every other election judge.

(4) In Calvert County, the compensation for each election day or early
voting day actually served shall be:

(i) $200 per day for each chief election judge; and

(ii) $175 per day for every other election judge.

(5) In Harford County, the compensation for each election day or early
voting day actually served shall be:

(i) not less than $160 per day for each chief election judge; and

(ii) not less than $125 per day for every other election judge.

(6) (i) In Prince George’s County, the compensation for each election
day or early voting day actually served shall be not less than:

1. $250 per day for two chief election judges; and

2. $200 per day for every other election judge.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 157 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) 1. In Prince George’s County, except as provided under
subsubparagraph 2 of this subparagraph, election judges and alternate election judges
shall receive $50 as compensation for completing the course of instruction required under
§ 10–206 of this subtitle.

2. An election judge or alternate election judge may not
receive the compensation authorized under this subparagraph if the election judge refuses
to serve on an election day or on an early voting day, unless the local board excuses the
election judge.

(7) (i) In Washington County, the compensation for each election day
or early voting day actually served shall be:

1. $175 per day for each chief election judge, plus a mileage
allowance as determined by the Washington County Board; and

2. $150 per day for every other election judge.

(ii) In Washington County, a chief election judge or election judge
who successfully completes a course of instruction in poll working shall be eligible for
additional compensation, if approved by the Washington County Board and provided for in
budget.]the county

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 4 –