PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 666

Chapter 666

(Senate Bill 67)

AN ACT concerning

Clerks of the Circuit Courts – Civil Commissions – Presentation and Reporting

FOR the purpose of requiring an appointee for a civil commission to contact the clerk of the
circuit court to which the commission was delivered by the Governor to coordinate a
time and place for the administration of the oath of office and presentation of the
commission; altering the frequency with which the clerk of a circuit court must report
to the Secretary of State the name and office of each officer who has taken the oath
of office; repealing obsolete provisions relating to taxes on commissions; and
generally relating to clerks of the circuit courts and civil commissions.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 2–211 and 2–212
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – General Provisions
Section 2–302
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

2–211.

[When] AFTER the Governor issues a civil commission andFOR AN APPOINTEE
[the State] [theSecretary of delivers the commission to the clerk of a circuit court, clerk
immediately shall deliver the commission to the person to whom the commission is directed
commission]and who applies for the THE APPOINTEE SHALL CONTACT THE CLERK TO
APPOINTEE’SCOORDINATE A TIME AND PLACE FOR THE CLERK TO ADMINISTER THE
COMMISSION.OATH OF OFFICE AND PRESENT THE

2–212.

[At the] THE(a) least once a month, clerk of a circuit court shall REGULARLY
report to the Secretary of State the name and office of each officer who has taken, before

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 666 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

the clerk, the oath required by the Constitution or another law.

[(1)(b) The clerk of a circuit court may not administer the oath of office to any
officer until the officer has paid the tax on the officer’s commission that is required by law.

(2) On the first Monday of March, June, September, and December, the
clerk shall pay to the Treasurer all money that the clerk has received for taxes on
commissions.

(c)] (1) On request of any person, the clerk of a circuit court shall give a
certificate, under the seal of the clerk’s office, of the qualification of any public officer:

(i) Who has taken the oath of office before the clerk; or

(ii) Whose oath of office is recorded in the clerk’s office.

(2) The clerk shall charge $1 for issuing a certificate under seal of the
qualifications of any public official, including justices of the peace and notaries public.

Article – General Provisions

2–302.

[At the] THE(a) least once each month, clerk of each circuit court shall
report to the Secretary of State the names and offices of all officers who haveREGULARLY
taken and subscribed an oath before the clerk.

(b) The Secretary of State:

(1) shall preserve a report required by subsection (a) of this section; and

(2) equally with the clerk of a circuit court, is competent to certify that an
officer has qualified by taking and subscribing an oath before the clerk.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 2 –