PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 19

Chapter 19

(Senate Bill 241)

AN ACT concerning

Commercial Law – Abandoned Property – Alterations

FOR the purpose of requiring the Comptroller, as Administrator of abandoned property in
the State, to determine the value of certain nonmonetary abandoned property;
authorizing the Administrator to dispose of the property in certain manners; and
generally relating to abandoned property in the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Commercial Law
Section 17–316
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Commercial Law

17–316.

WITHIN 1(a) YEAR AFTER DELIVERY UNDER THIS TITLE OF ABANDONED
MONEY, ADMINISTRATOR DETERMINE:PROPERTY OTHER THAN THE SHALL

(1) WHETHER VALUE;THE PROPERTY HAS COMMERCIAL AND

(2) IF VALUE, PROPERTY’STHE PROPERTY HAS COMMERCIAL THE
VALUE.COMMERCIAL

(B) (1) [this] (C) [all]Except as provided in subsection SECTION,OF THIS
1WITHIN YEAR AFTER DELIVERY UNDER THIS TITLE OF ABANDONED PROPERTY
MONEY, ADMINISTRATOR abandoned propertyOTHER THAN THE SHALL OFFER THE
[under this title, other than money delivered to the Administrator under this title, shall be
offered] [by delivery].for sale the Administrator within 1 year of

(2) The sale shall be to the highest bidder at public sale in whatever place
in the State affords the most favorable market for the property involved.

(3) The Administrator may decline the highest bid and reoffer the property
for sale if the price bid is insufficient.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 19 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) (1) [any]The Administrator need not offer property for saleABANDONED
if[, the]:

(I) THE probable cost of sale exceeds the Administrator’s estimation
property;of the value of the OR

(II) THE ADMINISTRATOR DETERMINES THAT THE PROPERTY
VALUE.HAS NO COMMERCIAL

(2) IF (1)UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION ABANDONED
SALE, ADMINISTRATOR MAY:PROPERTY NEED NOT BE OFFERED FOR THE

(I) RETURN HOLDER;THE PROPERTY TO THE

(II) DESTROY PROPERTY;THE OR

(III) OTHERWISE PROPERTY.DISPOSE OF THE

[(b) Any sale held under this section shall be preceded by a single publication of
notice at least three weeks in advance of the sale in a newspaper of general circulation in
sold.]the county where the property is to be

(D) THE ADMINISTRATOR SHALL GIVE REASONABLE NOTICE TO THE
SECTION.PUBLIC OF ANY SALE HELD UNDER THIS

[(c)] (E) (1) The purchaser at any sale conducted by the Administrator under
this section shall receive title to the property purchased, free from every claim of the owner
or prior holder of it and of every person who claims through or under them.

(2) The Administrator shall execute all documents necessary to complete
the transfer of title.

[(d)] (F) No action by any person may be brought or maintained against the
State or any officer of the State for or on account of any transaction entered into pursuant
to and in accordance with the provisions of this section.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 11, 2023.

– 2 –