PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 565

Chapter 565

(Senate Bill 310)

AN ACT concerning

Natural Resources – Black Bear ~~Conflict~~ ~~Reduction~~ ~~and~~ Damage ~~Mitigation~~
Prevention and Reimbursement Fund – Uses

FOR the purpose of altering the Black Bear Damage Reimbursement Fund to authorize
grants from the Fund to be made for projects that ~~mitigate~~ prevent damages caused
by black bears and reduce conflicts between black bears and humans; renaming the
Black Bear Damage Reimbursement Fund to be the Black Bear ~~Conflict~~ ~~Reduction~~
~~and~~ Damage ~~Mitigation~~ Prevention and Reimbursement Fund; requiring a certain
amount of the Fund to be reserved for black bear damage reimbursement; repealing
a certain apportionment formula applicable to black bear damage reimbursement
under certain circumstances; increasing the ~~minimum~~ ~~and~~ maximum ~~amounts~~
amount of reimbursement from the Fund per person annually authorized for damage
caused by black bears; and generally relating to the Black Bear ~~Conflict~~ ~~Reduction~~
~~and~~ Damage ~~Mitigation~~ Prevention and Reimbursement Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 10–423.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2012 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

10–423.1.

(a) The General Assembly finds that it is in the public interest to provide funding
to reimbursePREVENT CONFLICTS WITH BLACK BEARS BEFORE THEY OCCUR AND TO
a person who has sustained damage to agricultural products or pets as a result of black
bear.

~~CONFLICT~~ ~~REDUCTION~~(b) (1) There is a Black Bear Damage~~AND~~
~~MITIGATION~~ PREVENTION Reimbursement Fund in the Department.AND

(2) The Fund consists of:

(i) Proceeds from the sale of a conservation bear stamp or decal
[and]which may be purchased at a cost of $5 for each stamp or decal;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 565 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) Gifts, grants, and contributions to the State that are designated
Fund;for inclusion in the AND

(III) MONEY STATEAPPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE
FUND.

(3) The Fund is a continuing, nonlapsing special fund, and is not subject to
§ 7–302 of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(4) The State Treasurer shall hold and the State Comptroller shall account
for the Fund.

(1) THE DEPARTMENT(c) SHALL ACCEPT REQUESTS FOR GRANTS FROM
FUNDTHE FOR PROJECTS THAT ~~MITIGATE~~ SEEK TO PREVENT DAMAGES CAUSED BY
BLACK BEARS AND REDUCE CONFLICTS BETWEEN HUMANS AND BLACK BEARS
METHODS.THROUGH NONLETHAL

(2) IN GRANTS,DETERMINING PROJECTS THAT ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
DEPARTMENT THAT:THE SHALL CONSIDER PROJECTS

(I) REDUCE THE AVAILABILITY OF ATTRACTANTS TO BLACK
COMMUNITIES, COMMUNITIES;BEARS IN INCLUDING AGRICULTURAL

(II) DISCOURAGE BLACK BEARS FROM ENTERING AREAS THAT
BEARS;HAVE A HIGH NUMBER OF CONFLICTS BETWEEN HUMANS AND BLACK

(III) HAVE LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT OR A DETAILED PLAN
SUPPORT;TO BUILD LOCAL COMMUNITY

(IV) USE PROVEN NONLETHAL TECHNIQUES FOR REDUCING
CONFLICTS BETWEEN HUMANS AND BLACK BEARS OR INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS THAT
HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO PREVENT CONFLICTS BETWEEN HUMANS AND BLACK
BEARS;

(V) ARE COST–EFFECTIVE INVESTMENTS THAT HAVE THE
POTENTIAL TO CONTINUE TO BE EFFECTIVE BEYOND THE TIME FRAME FOR THE
FUNDING;GRANT OR

(VI) INCLUDE IN–KIND MATCH.MATCHING FUNDS OR AN

(3) THE DEPARTMENT FOR:MAY NOT AWARD A GRANT

(I) THE BEARS;LETHAL REMOVAL OF BLACK

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 565

(II) STAND–ALONE RESEARCH, COLLECTION,DATA AND
ANALYSIS; OR

(III) THE PROFIT.DIRECT GENERATION OF REVENUE OR

(4) ENTITIES ELIGIBLE FOR A GRANT UNDER THIS SUBSECTION
INCLUDE:

(I) LOCAL GOVERNMENTS;

(II) PARKS DEPARTMENTS;AND RECREATION

(III) LANDOWNERS;

(IV) FARMERS;

(V) BUSINESSES;

(VI) TRIBES;

(VII) INSTITUTIONS EDUCATION;OF HIGHER AND

(VIII) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.

(5) GRANT FUNDING UNDER THIS SUBSECTION SHALL BE CAPPED AT
~~$50,000~~ 10%AN AMOUNT THAT LEAVES AT LEAST OF THE TOTAL ANNUAL
(F)APPROPRIATION UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION AVAILABLE ~~ANNUALLY~~
(D)FOR BLACK BEAR DAMAGE REIMBURSEMENT UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION.

(D) (1) [BlackThe Department may reimburse a person from the Bear Damage
Reimbursement] Fund in accordance withFOR DAMAGE CAUSED BY BLACK BEARS
[subsections section](d) and (e) of this for any damage to the person’s:THIS SUBSECTION

[(1)] (I) Beehives, fruit, or other crops;

[(2)] (II) Livestock and poultry as defined in § 1–101 of the Agriculture
Article; or

[(3)] (III) Pets as defined in § 4–501 of the Family Law Article.

[(d) (1)] (2) A person is eligible to be reimbursed from the Fund FOR
if:DAMAGE CAUSED BY BLACK BEARS

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 565 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) The person has followed all black bear damage preventive
measures recommended by the Department;

(ii) The damage amount is determined by an extension agent of the
University of Maryland Cooperative Extension Service; and

(iii) The Department has verified that the damage was caused by
black bear.

[(2)] (3) Subject to available funding, a person may be reimbursed from
[$200]the Fund in an amount not less thanFOR DAMAGE CAUSED BY BLACK BEARS
~~$500~~ [$3,000] $5,000or more than per year.

[If(e) the money in the Fund is not sufficient to satisfy all the claims in
accordance with the conditions described in subsection (d) of this section, an equal percent
of each claim shall be paid.

(f)] [the of]The Department shall adopt regulations to carry out provisions this
section.

(F) FOR YEAR, GOVERNOREACH FISCAL THE ~~SHALL~~ MAY INCLUDE IN THE
~~$1,000,000~~ $50,000ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF AT LEAST TO THE
FUND.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 4 –