PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 743

Chapter 743

(Senate Bill 330)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Law Enforcement – Body–Worn Cameras
(Body–Worn Camera Appropriation and Financing Act of 2023)

FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of General Services, in coordination with the
Department of Information Technology, to negotiate certain contracts ~~to~~ ~~acquire~~ ~~and~~
~~maintain~~ ~~body–worn~~ ~~cameras,~~ ~~equipment,~~ ~~and~~ ~~technology~~ ~~at~~ ~~the~~ ~~request~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~law~~
~~enforcement~~ ~~agency~~ with third parties for the acquisition or maintenance of
body–worn cameras, equipment, or technology for certain law enforcement agencies;
requiring the ~~Maryland~~ ~~Police~~ ~~Training~~ ~~and~~ ~~Standards~~ ~~Commission~~ Department of
Information Technology, in coordination with the Department of General Services
~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Information~~ ~~Technology,~~ to study the cost and feasibility of
implementing a statewide uniform storage and access system for the body–worn
camera data of all law enforcement agencies; and generally relating to law
enforcement agencies and body–worn cameras.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 3–101(a) and (e) and 3–201(a) and (d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Public Safety
Section 3–511.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

3–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(e) “Law enforcement agency” has the meaning stated in § 3–201 of this title.

3–201.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 743 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(d) (1) “Law enforcement agency” means a governmental police force, sheriff’s
office, or security force or law enforcement organization of the State, a county, or a
municipal corporation that by statute, ordinance, or common law is authorized to enforce
the general criminal laws of the State.

(2) “Law enforcement agency” does not include members of the Maryland
National Guard who:

(i) are under the control and jurisdiction of the Military
Department;

(ii) are assigned to the military property designated as the Martin
State Airport; and

(iii) are charged with exercising police powers in and for the Martin
State Airport.

3–511.1.

(A) (1) ~~AT~~ ~~AGENCY,~~ THE~~THE~~ ~~REQUEST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~LAW~~ ~~ENFORCEMENT~~ ~~THE~~
DEPARTMENT GENERAL SERVICES, DEPARTMENTOF IN COORDINATION WITH THE
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY,OF SHALL NEGOTIATE CONTRACTS ~~TO~~ ~~ACQUIRE~~ ~~AND~~
~~BODY–WORN~~ ~~CAMERAS,~~ ~~EQUIPMENT,~~~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~AND~~ ~~TECHNOLOGY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LAW~~
~~AGENCY,~~~~ENFORCEMENT~~ AT THE REQUEST OF ONE OR MORE LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES, WITH THIRD PARTIES FOR THE ACQUISITION OR MAINTENANCE OF
BODY–WORN CAMERAS, EQUIPMENT, OR TECHNOLOGY FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES.

(2) THE (1)CONTRACTS NEGOTIATED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION MAY INCLUDE CONTRACTS FOR ANY RELATED EQUIPMENT OR
TECHNOLOGY DETERMINED TO BE NECESSARY FOR THE EFFECTIVE USE OF
BODY–WORN CAMERAS.

(3) THE DEPARTMENT GENERAL SERVICESOF SHALL NOTIFY ALL
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES OF THE CONTRACTS THAT ARE BEING NEGOTIATED
(1)UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION BY POSTING THE CONTRACTS ON
EMARYLAND MARKETPLACE ADVANTAGE.

(B) THE (A)CONTRACTS NEGOTIATED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
PRIORITIZE:SECTION SHALL

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 743

(1) EQUIPMENT AND TECHNOLOGY THAT COMPLIES WITH THE
MARYLAND POLICE TRAINING STANDARDSPOLICIES DEVELOPED BY THE AND
COMMISSION § 3–511 SUBTITLE;UNDER OF THIS

(2) EQUIPMENT AND TECHNOLOGY THAT CONFORM TO INDUSTRY
PRACTICES;STANDARDS AND BEST

(3) PRIVACY;CYBERSECURITY AND DATA

(4) COMPATIBILITY WITH DIFFERENT EQUIPMENT AND
TECHNOLOGY;

(5) VIEW, EDIT, REDACT,CAPABILITIES TO EFFECTIVELY AND
BODY–WORN CAMERAS;TRANSFER DATA FROM AND

(6) EFFECTIVENESS.COST

(C) FOR (A)ANY CONTRACT NEGOTIATED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, THE RIGHT OF A LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY TO RECEIVE SERVICES
VIEWING, EDITING, REDACTING,FROM AN ENTITY RELATED TO OR TRANSFERRING
BODY–WORN MANNER.DATA FROM CAMERAS MAY NOT BE RESTRICTED IN ANY

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) The ~~Maryland~~ ~~Police~~ ~~Training~~ ~~and~~ ~~Standards~~ ~~Commission~~ Department of
Information Technology, in coordination with the Department of General Services ~~and~~ ~~the~~
~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Information~~ ~~Technology,~~ shall study the cost and feasibility of implementing
a statewide uniform storage and access system for the body–worn camera data of all law
enforcement agencies, as defined in § 3–201 of the Public Safety Article.

(b) The study shall include an analysis of:

(1) the best practices for the storage of body–worn camera data; and

(2) alternatives to a statewide uniform storage and access system for
body–worn camera data.

(c) On or before December 1, 2023, the ~~Maryland~~ ~~Police~~ ~~Training~~ ~~and~~ ~~Standards~~
~~Commission~~ Department of Information Technology shall report the findings of the study
to the Senate Budget and Taxation Committee and the House Appropriations Committee,
in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall be construed to
apply only prospectively and may not be applied or interpreted to have any effect on or

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 743 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

application to any contract related to body–worn cameras negotiated before the effective
date of this Act.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 4 –