PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 637

Chapter 637

(Senate Bill 343)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Program – Account
Establishment – Procedures

FOR the purpose of establishing certain procedures regarding the persons who may
establish or receive distributions from an ABLE account in the Maryland ABLE
Program for a certain eligible individual; requiring the Maryland 529 Board to adopt
certain procedures regarding the establishment and operation of an ABLE account
by a person other than a certain designated beneficiary; and generally relating to the
Maryland ABLE Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 18–19C–01, 18–19C–02(d), and 18–19C–04
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

18–19C–01.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “ABLE account” means an account described under § 529A(e) of the Internal
Revenue Code.

(c) “ABLE account contributor” means an individual who contributes money to
an ABLE account described under § 529A(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(d) “ABLE account holder” means an individual who has established an account
described under § 529A(e) of the Internal Revenue Code and is the designated beneficiary
of the account.

(e) “Board” means the Maryland 529 Board established under § 18–1904 of this
title.

(f) “Designated beneficiary” means an individual described in § 529A(e) of the
Internal Revenue Code.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 637 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

“ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL” §(g) MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL DESCRIBED IN
529A(E) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.OF THE

(H) “Maryland ABLE Program” means a qualified ABLE program described in §
529A(b) of the Internal Revenue Code.

[(h)] (I) “Qualified disability expenses” means expenses described in § 529A(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code.

18–19C–02.

(d) (1) The Board shall adopt procedures relating to:

(i) Enrollment for participation in the Maryland ABLE Program;
[and]

(ii) Start–up costs incurred by the State for the development of the
Maryland ABLE Program with these costs to be reimbursed to the State by the Maryland
Program;ABLE AND

(III) THE ABLEESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF AN
ACCOUNT BY A PERSON OTHER THAN A DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY AS DESCRIBED IN
§ 18–19C–04 SUBTITLE.OF THIS

(2) The Board shall adopt any other procedures that the Board considers
necessary to carry out the provisions of this subtitle.

18–19C–04.

(1) individual[,(a) An eligible as defined in § 529A(e) of the Internal Revenue
Code,] may participate in and benefit from the Maryland ABLE Program.

(2) AN ABLE ACCOUNT MAY BE ESTABLISHED ONLY FOR AN
BY:ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL

(I) THE INDIVIDUAL;ELIGIBLE

(II) A INDIVIDUAL;PERSON SELECTED BY THE ELIGIBLE OR

(III) SUBJECT (3)TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION AND
(4) SUBSECTION,EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS IF AN ELIGIBLE
INDIVIDUAL, ADULT, ABLEWHETHER A MINOR OR AN IS UNABLE TO ESTABLISH AN
ACCOUNT:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 637

1. THE INDIVIDUAL’SELIGIBLE AGENT UNDER A POWER
ATTORNEY;OF OR

2. IF THE ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL DOES NOT HAVE A
ATTORNEY, ORDER, INDIVIDUAL’S:POWER OF IN THE FOLLOWING THE ELIGIBLE

A. CONSERVATOR GUARDIAN;OR LEGAL

B. SPOUSE;

C. PARENT;

D. SIBLING;

E. GRANDPARENT; OR

F. REPRESENTATIVE PAYEE APPOINTED FOR THE
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL BY THE

(3) THE BOARD MAY ACCEPT A CERTIFICATION MADE UNDER THE
ABLEPENALTIES OF PERJURY FROM THE PERSON SEEKING TO ESTABLISH AN
INDICATES:ACCOUNT THAT

(I) THE PERSON’SBASIS OF THE AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH
ABLE ACCOUNT;THE AND

(II) THERE IS NO OTHER PERSON WITH A HIGHER PRIORITY TO
ABLE (2)(III) SUBSECTION.ESTABLISH THE ACCOUNT UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(4) THE ABLEFOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS MAY NOT ESTABLISH AN
INDIVIDUAL:ACCOUNT ON BEHALF OF AN ELIGIBLE

(I) A MINOR;

(II) AN INDIVIDUAL AGAINST WHOM THE ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL
ORDER;HAS OBTAINED A PEACE OR PROTECTIVE

(III) AN INDIVIDUAL WHO HAS BEEN HELD CIVILLY OR
TITLE 13, SUBTITLE 6CRIMINALLY LIABLE FOR FINANCIAL EXPLOITATION UNDER
ESTATES TRUSTS ARTICLE;OF THE AND OR

(IV) AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS THE SUBJECT OF A CIVIL OR
INDIVIDUAL.CRIMINAL ORDER PROHIBITING CONTACT WITH THE ELIGIBLE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 637 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[Distributions] SUBJECT § 529A(b) TO THE PROVISIONS OF OF THE
INTERNAL REVENUE CODE, shall be requested by the designatedDISTRIBUTIONS
[subject Code]beneficiary to the provisions of § 529A of the Internal Revenue OR THE
ABLE (A)PERSON AUTHORIZED TO ESTABLISH THE ACCOUNT UNDER SUBSECTION
SECTION.OF THIS

(C) THE BOARD SECTION.MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ June 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 4 –