PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 136

Chapter 136

(Senate Bill 331)

AN ACT concerning

Baltimore City – West North Avenue Development Authority – Membership and
Procurement

FOR the purpose of altering the membership of the West North Avenue Development
Authority; altering the date a certain comprehensive report is due and altering the
content of the report; exempting the Authority from certain provisions of State
procurement law; and generally relating to the West North Avenue Development
Authority.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 12–702
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 12–703 and 12–706(c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 12–703.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 11–203(j)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

12–702.

There is a West North Avenue Development Authority in Baltimore City.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 136 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

12–703.

(a) The Authority consists of the following members:

(1) one member of the Senate of Maryland who represents the target area,
appointed by the President of the Senate;

(2) one member of the House of Delegates who represents the target area,
appointed by the Speaker of the House;

(3) the Secretary of Housing and Community Development, or the
Secretary’s designee;

(4) the Secretary of Transportation, or the Secretary’s designee;

SECRETARY COMMERCE, SECRETARY’S(5) THE OF OR THE
DESIGNEE;

(6) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MARYLAND ECONOMICTHE OF THE
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

(7) one member of the Baltimore City Council who represents the target
area, appointed by the President of the Baltimore City Council;

[(6)] (8) one member appointed by the Mayor of Baltimore City;

[(7)] (9) one member appointed by the Governor;

[(8)] (10) the Director of the Baltimore Development Corporation, or the
Director’s designee;

[(9)] (11) the Commissioner of the Baltimore City Department of Housing
and Community Development, or the Commissioner’s designee;

[(10)] (12) the Director of the Baltimore City Department of Transportation,
or the Director’s designee;

[(11)] (13) the Director of the Baltimore City Department of Planning, or
the Director’s designee;

[(12)] (14) the President of Coppin State University, or the President’s
designee;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 136

[(13)] (15) the President of the Maryland Institute College of Art, or the
President’s designee; ~~and~~

(16) AUTHORITY,TWO MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE CHAIR OF THE OR
CHAIR’S DESIGNEE;THE AND

[(14)] (17)~~(16)~~ two members who are residents of communities impacted
by the target area or buffer zone, selected by the majority vote of the leadership of the
following organizations:

(i) Alliance of Rosemont Community Associations;

(ii) Bolton Hill Community Association;

(iii) Coppin Heights Community Development Corporation;

(iv) Druid Heights Community Development Corporation;

(v) Greater Mondawmin Coordinating Council;

(vi) Penn North Community Association; and

(vii) collectively, the leadership of the Reservoir Hill Improvement
Council, the Reservoir Hill Association, and the Upper Eutaw Madison Neighborhood
Association.

(b) The President of Coppin State University, or the President’s designee, shall
serve as the chair of the Authority.

12–706.

[October 1] DECEMBER 15,(c) On or before 2023, the Authority shall report its
strategy,comprehensive neighborhood revitalization INCLUDING ANY PROCUREMENT
AUTHORITY, to the Governor and, in accordance withACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN BY THE
Committee,2–1257 of the State Government Article, to the Senate Budget and Taxation THE
HOUSE HEALTH GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS COMMITTEE, and the HouseAND
Appropriations Committee.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Economic Development

12–703.1.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 136 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) EXCEPT (B) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
AUTHORITY DIVISION II STATE FINANCEIS EXEMPT FROM OF THE AND
PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.

(B) THE AUTHORITY TITLE 12, SUBTITLE 4 TITLE 14,IS SUBJECT TO AND
SUBTITLE 3 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.OF THE AND

Article – State Finance and Procurement

11–203.

(J) (1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
DIVISION II WEST NORTH AVENUE DEVELOPMENTTHIS DOES NOT APPLY TO THE
AUTHORITY TITLE 12, SUBTITLE 7 ECONOMICESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
DEVELOPMENT ARTICLE.

(2) THE WEST NORTH AVENUE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
TITLE 12, SUBTITLE 7 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
ARTICLE TITLE 12, SUBTITLE 4 TITLE 14, SUBTITLE 3IS SUBJECT TO AND OF THIS
ARTICLE.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act is an emergency
measure, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health or safety, has
been passed by a yea and nay vote supported by three–fifths of all the members elected to
each of the two Houses of the General Assembly, and shall take effect from the date it is
enacted. ~~It~~ Section 1 of this Act shall remain effective until the taking effect of the
termination provision specified in Section 2 of Chapters 80 and 81 of the Acts of the General
Assembly of 2021. If that termination provision takes effect, Section 1 of this Act, with no
further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force
and effect. This Act may not be interpreted to have any effect on that termination provision.
Section 2 of this Act shall remain effective through September 30, 2026, and, at the end of
September 30, 2026, Section 2 of this Act, with no further action required by the General
Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 4 –