PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 546

Chapter 546

(Senate Bill 470)

AN ACT concerning

Natural Resources – Land Conservation – Establishment of Goals and Programs
(Maryland the Beautiful Act)

FOR the purpose of establishing certain goals and programs related to land conservation;
establishing the Local Land Trust Revolving Loan Program to provide loans to
certain land trusts to purchase land for conservation purposes; authorizing the
Maryland Environmental Trust to exercise certain remedies under certain
circumstances; prohibiting a person from making any false statements affecting a
Local Land Trust Revolving Loan Program loan; providing that a person who violates
certain provisions of law is subject to certain penalties; establishing the Local Land
Trust Revolving Loan Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; requiring interest
earnings of the Fund to be credited to the Fund; ~~requiring~~ authorizing the Governor,
beginning in a certain fiscal year, to include in the annual budget bill a certain
appropriation to the ~~Maryland~~ ~~Environmental~~ Trust to be used to provide certain
grants through the Keep Maryland Beautiful Program; establishing the 40 x 40 Land
Conservation Implementation Grant Program to support implementation of land
conservation goals; authorizing certain excess revenue from the transfer tax
collected in a certain fiscal year to be allocated to the Local Land Trust Revolving
Loan Fund; and generally relating to land conservation in the State.

BY adding to
Article – Natural Resources
New part designation “Part I. General Provisions” to immediately precede Section
3–201; Section 3–214 through ~~3–216~~ 3–217 to be under the new part “Part II.
Local Land Trust Revolving Loan Program”; and 5–104
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 3–210
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 546 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Tax – Property
Section 13–209(f)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the new part designation “Part I. General Provisions” be added to immediately
precede Section 3–201 of Article – Natural Resources of the Annotated Code of Maryland.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

3–210.

(A) (1) Any function or activity of the Governor’s Committee to Keep Maryland
Beautiful is transferred to the Trust.

(2) These functions and activities include, by way of enumeration and not
limitation:

[(1)] (I) Educating Maryland citizens and visitors in their individual
responsibility in litter prevention and care of the out–of–doors through a two–fold
approach:

[(i)] 1. Awareness–publicity through radio, TV, newspapers, and
other public media; and

[(ii)] 2. Action–cleanup and beautification projects carried out by
civic organizations, county committees, and community groups in cooperation with public
agencies;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 546

[(2)] (II) Efficient use of public and private funds spent on cleaning up
highways, parks, beaches, and other public and private property;

[(3)] (III) Increasing beauty through stimulation of private business,
community, and public planting projects; and

[(4)] (IV) Stimulating pride and appreciation for home, community, and
State.

(B) (1) IN 2025 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR THE
GOVERNOR ~~SHALL~~ MAY INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION
$235,000 TRUST,OF TO THE TO BE USED IN THE FOLLOWING AMOUNTS FOR THE
PURPOSES:FOLLOWING

(I) $50,000 PER YEAR TO PROVIDE LAND STEWARDSHIP
CAPACITY–BUILDING $10,000GRANTS OF UP TO TO LAND TRUSTS TO SUPPORT
SCHOLARSHIPS,MONITORING AND STEWARDSHIP LAND MONITORING AND
EQUIPMENT,STEWARDSHIP OR ORGANIZATIONAL ACCREDITATION AND
TRAININGS;CERTIFICATION

(II) $50,000 PER YEAR TO PROVIDE LAND STEWARDSHIP
$10,000IMPROVEMENT GRANTS OF UP TO TO LAND TRUSTS TO SUPPORT IMPROVED
LANDS, LANDS,MONITORING AND STEWARDSHIP OF AGRICULTURAL FOREST OR
LANDS FACING A HIGH DEGREE OF THREAT FROM INVASIVE SPECIES OR THE
CHANGE;EFFECTS OF CLIMATE AND

(III) $135,000 PER YEAR TO PROVIDE CITIZEN STEWARDSHIP
$5,000 ORGANIZATIONS,GRANTS OF UP TO TO NONPROFIT COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS, SCHOOLS, AND MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS TO ENGAGE
MEMBERS, ADULTS,COMMUNITY ESPECIALLY CHILDREN AND YOUNG IN
STEWARDSHIP.ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND

(2) FUNDS TRUST (1)PROVIDED TO THE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION ARE SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND ARE NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE
TRUSTOF FUNDING THAT WOULD OTHERWISE BE APPROPRIATED TO THE FOR
KEEP MARYLAND BEAUTIFUL PROGRAM.GRANTS ADMINISTERED UNDER THE

3–212. RESERVED.

3–213. RESERVED.

PART II. LOCAL LAND TRUST REVOLVING LOAN PROGRAM.

3–214.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 546 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) IN THIS PART THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “ADVISORY COMMITTEE” LAND PRESERVATION RAPIDMEANS THE
RESPONSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

(C) “BOARD TRUSTEES” BOARD TRUSTEESOF MEANS THE OF OF THE
MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL TRUST.

(D) “EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE” EXECUTIVE COMMITTEEMEANS THE OF THE
MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL TRUST.

(E) “FUND” LOCAL LAND TRUST REVOLVING LOAN FUND.MEANS THE

(F) “LAND TRUST” § 3–2A–01HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THIS
ARTICLE.

(G) “PROGRAM” LOCAL LAND TRUST REVOLVING LOANMEANS THE
PROGRAM.

(H) “TRUST” MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL TRUST.MEANS THE

3–215.

(A) THERE LOCAL LAND TRUST REVOLVING LOAN PROGRAM.IS A

(B) THE PROGRAM TO:PURPOSE OF THE IS

(1) SUPPORT THE EFFORTS OF LOCAL LAND TRUSTS THAT WORK
STATEWITH AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES ~~AND~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~DIFFICULTY~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~OPEN~~ ~~SPACE~~~~ACCESSING~~ ~~MONEY~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~EXISTING~~ ~~PRESERVATION~~
~~MANNER;~~~~PROGRAMS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~TIMELY~~ AND

(2) PROVIDE REVOLVING LOANS TO LAND TRUSTS ON A ROLLING
BASIS TO ASSIST THE LAND TRUSTS TO PURCHASE FEE SIMPLE OR EASEMENT
PURPOSES.INTERESTS IN REAL PROPERTY FOR CONSERVATION

(C) (1) THE TRUST SHALL:

(I) ADMINISTER PROGRAM;THE AND

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 546

(II) ESTABLISH APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND ELIGIBILITY
PROGRAM LOANS.CRITERIA FOR

(2) IF TRUST APPLICANT’STHE APPROVES AN REQUEST FOR A
PROGRAM LOAN, TRUST SHALL:THE

(I) PREPARE DOCUMENTS;THE LOAN AND

(II) ESTABLISH LOAN.THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE

~~(C)~~ (D) A PROGRAMLAND TRUST THAT RECEIVES A LOAN TO PURCHASE
(B)PROPERTY IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION SHALL REPAY
FUND:THE

(1) AT ~~MARYLAND~~A RATE TO BE DETERMINED BY THE
~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~ TRUST, NOT TO EXCEED ONE POINT BELOW THE PRIME INTEREST
RATE; AND

(2) AFTER IS:THE PROPERTY

(I) PLACED EASEMENT;UNDER A CONSERVATION OR

(II) TRANSFERRED STATETO A OR LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL
ENTITY.

~~(D)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~~~IS~~ ~~ADMINISTERED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~TRUST.~~

(E) NOTHING STATEIN THIS SECTION OBLIGATES A OR LOCAL
GOVERNMENT ENTITY TO ACCEPT OR PURCHASE FROM A LAND TRUST A
CONSERVATION EASEMENT OR TRANSFERRED PROPERTY PURCHASED WITH A
PROGRAM LOAN.

(F) NOTWITHSTANDING (D)(2) SECTION,SUBSECTION OF THIS A LAND
PROGRAM 5TRUST SHALL REPAY A LOAN AND ANY ACCRUED INTEREST WITHIN
PROGRAM LOAN, BOARD TRUSTEESYEARS AFTER RECEIVING THE UNLESS THE OF
CIRCUMSTANCES.APPROVES AN EXTENSION OF TIME BASED ON EXTENUATING

(G) IF A LAND TRUST VIOLATES ANY PROVISION OF THE LOAN DOCUMENTS
SUBTITLE,OR CEASES TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS ON REASONABLE
TRUST, TRUSTNOTICE TO THE LAND THE MAY EXERCISE ANY REMEDY AVAILABLE
LAW, DOCUMENTS.UNDER INCLUDING ANY REMEDIES PROVIDED FOR IN THE LOAN

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 546 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(H) (1) A PERSON MAY NOT KNOWINGLY MAKE OR CAUSE TO BE MADE ANY
REPORT,FALSE STATEMENT OR INCLUDING ANY UNDERSTATEMENT OR
OVERSTATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION FOR A NEW LOAN OR AFFECTING A LOAN
SUBTITLE:ALREADY MADE UNDER THIS

(I) IN ANY APPLICATION OR IN ANY DOCUMENT FURNISHED TO
TRUST;THE OR

(II) FOR THE PURPOSE OF INFLUENCING THE ACTION OF THE
TRUST ON AN APPLICATION FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE OR FOR THE PURPOSE OF
TRUSTINFLUENCING ANY ACTION OF THE AFFECTING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
EXTENDED.WHETHER OR NOT SUCH ASSISTANCE MAY HAVE ALREADY BEEN

(2) ANY PERSON, AIDER, OR ABETTOR WHO VIOLATES ANY PROVISION
OF THIS SUBTITLE IS GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR AND ON CONVICTION IS SUBJECT
$50,000 5TO A FINE NOT EXCEEDING OR IMPRISONMENT NOT EXCEEDING YEARS OR
BOTH.

3–216.

~~(E)~~ (A) ~~(1)~~ THERE LAND PRESERVATION RAPID RESPONSEIS A
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

~~(2)~~ (B) THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO:PURPOSE OF THE IS

~~(I)~~ (1) REVIEW PROGRAMAND PRIORITIZE LOAN
~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~COMMITTEE~~APPLICATIONS FOR ~~FINAL~~ ~~APPROVAL~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
BOARD TRUSTEES;CONSIDERATION BY THE OF AND

~~(II)~~ (2) MAKE ~~EXECUTIVE~~RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE
~~COMMITTEE~~ BOARD TRUSTEES ON:OF

~~1.~~ (I) WHICH FUND,PROJECTS TO WHETHER IN WHOLE OR
PART;IN AND

~~2.~~ (II)THE PROJECT.FUNDING TO BE ALLOCATED TO EACH

~~(3)~~ (C) THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE OF:CONSISTS

~~(I)~~ (1) A DEPARTMENT,REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
SECRETARY;SELECTED BY THE AND

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 546

~~(II)~~ (2) THE MEMBERS,FOLLOWING SELECTED BY THE
BOARD TRUSTEES:OF

~~1.~~ (I) A ~~MARYLAND~~REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~ TRUST EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE;THAT IS NOT A MEMBER OF THE

~~2.~~ (II)A REPRESENTATIVE OF A NONPROFIT LAND
STATE;CONSERVATION ORGANIZATION IN THE

~~3.~~ (III)A REPRESENTATIVE OF A LOCAL PARKS AND
STATE;RECREATION DEPARTMENT IN THE AND

~~4.~~ (IV) AN INDIVIDUAL WITH EXPERIENCE IN LOAN
UNDERWRITING.

~~3–216.~~ 3–217.

(A) THERE LOCAL LAND TRUST REVOLVING LOAN FUND.IS A

(B) THE FUND PROGRAM.PURPOSE OF THE IS TO FINANCE THE

(C) THE ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~ TRUST SHALL ADMINISTER THE
FUND.

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) MONEY STATE FUND;APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) INTEREST EARNINGS; ~~AND~~

(3) REPAYMENTS OF PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST FROM LOANS MADE
PROGRAM;UNDER THE AND

(4) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 546 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(F) ~~IN~~ ~~2025,~~ THE GOVERNOR~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ MAY INCLUDE IN THE
~~$10,000,000~~ FUND.ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION ~~OF~~ TO THE

(G) THE FUND MAY BE USED ONLY TO PROVIDE FUNDING FOR THE
PROGRAM.

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(J) MONEY FUND PROGRAMEXPENDED FROM THE FOR THE IS
SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF FUNDING THAT
PROGRAM.OTHERWISE WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR THE

5–104.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “CONSERVE” MEANS TO PERMANENTLY PROTECT LAND FROM
PURCHASE, DONATION,DEVELOPMENT THROUGH A PERPETUAL CONSERVATION OR
EASEMENT,AN OPEN SPACE OR FEE OWNERSHIP IN ORDER TO PRESERVE THE
CULTURAL, HISTORICAL, ECOLOGICAL, LAND.OR AGRICULTURAL VALUE OF THE

(3) “PROGRAM” 40 40 LAND CONSERVATIONMEANS THE X
IMPLEMENTATION GRANT PROGRAM (C)ESTABLISHED UNDER SUBSECTION OF
SECTION.THIS

(4) “SMART GROWTH SUBCABINET” SMART GROWTHMEANS THE
SUBCABINET § 9–1406 STATE GOVERNMENTESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
ARTICLE.

(5) “TRUST” MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL TRUST.MEANS THE

(B) (1) IT GENERAL ASSEMBLY THAT:IS THE INTENT OF THE

(I) BY 2030, 30% STATE CONSERVED;OF LANDS IN THE BE AND

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 546

(II) BY 2040, 40% STATE CONSERVED.OF LANDS IN THE BE

(2) THE CONSERVATION GOALS ESTABLISHED UNDER PARAGRAPH
(1) EFFORTS,OF THIS SUBSECTION SHALL BE ACCOMPLISHED THROUGH MULTIPLE
INCLUDING:

(I) WORKING COMMUNITIES, COUNTIES,WITH LOCAL
MUNICIPALITIES, AMERICAN INDIAN COMMUNITIES, AND PRIVATE LANDOWNERS TO
RESOURCES;CONSERVE NATURAL PLACES AND

(II) IMPROVING ACCESS TO NATURE FOR ALL INDIVIDUALS IN
STATE,THE INCLUDING COMMUNITIES OF COLOR AND ECONOMICALLY
COMMUNITIES;DISADVANTAGED

(III) SEQUESTERING CARBON AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
STATE;IN THE LANDS AND WATERS OF THE

(IV) INCREASING PUBLIC INCENTIVES FOR PRIVATE
LANDOWNERS TO VOLUNTARILY CONSERVE AND PROTECT AREAS OF
DEMONSTRATED CONSERVATION VALUE AND AREAS THAT HAVE A HIGH CAPACITY
EMISSIONS;TO SEQUESTER CARBON AND GREENHOUSE GAS

(V) FOCUSING CONSERVATION WORK AT A LARGE LANDSCAPE
MEANINGFUL;SCALE THAT IS BIOLOGICALLY AND ECOLOGICALLY

(VI) PREVENTING THE EXTINCTION OF NATIVE PLANT AND
SPECIES;ANIMAL SPECIES BY RECOVERING AND RESTORING THE

(VII) STABILIZING SERVICES,ECOSYSTEMS AND ECOSYSTEM
ECOSYSTEMS, FUNCTIONS;RESTORING DEGRADED AND MAINTAINING ECOLOGICAL
AND

(VIII) INCREASING FARMERS,ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR
RANCHERS, FISHERS, FORESTERS.AND

(C) (1) THE TRUST 40 40 LAND CONSERVATIONSHALL ADMINISTER A X
IMPLEMENTATION GRANT PROGRAM TO SUPPORT IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
(B) SECTION.GOALS ESTABLISHED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

(2) PROGRAM SHALL:GRANTS

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 546 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) BE AWARDED EACH YEAR ON A COMPETITIVE BASIS TO A
~~STATEWIDE~~ NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION THAT FOCUSES ON SUPPORTING THE
STATE;PERMANENT CONSERVATION OF THE LANDS OF THE AND

(II) PROVIDE LEAST:AT

1. $150,000 TO THE GRANT RECIPIENT FOR THE
RESOURCES, SUPPORT,PURPOSE OF PROVIDING TOOLS AND ORGANIZATIONAL AND
TRUSTS;CAPACITY BUILDING TO LOCAL LAND AND

2. $100,000 TO THE GRANT RECIPIENT FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PROVIDING STATEWIDE EDUCATIONAL CONFERENCES AND TRAININGS
ACQUISITION,FOR LOCAL LAND TRUSTS ON THE TOPICS OF EASEMENT
TOOLS, STEWARDSHIP,CONSERVATION PROGRAMS AND LAND MANAGEMENT AND
SUBJECTS.AND OTHER RELEVANT

(3) IN 2025 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR THE
GOVERNOR ~~SHALL~~ MAY INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION
$250,000 TRUSTOF TO THE FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING THE GRANTS
SUBSECTION.REQUIRED UNDER THIS

(D) (1) IN ORDER TO MEET THE CONSERVATION GOALS ESTABLISHED
(B) SECTION, SMART GROWTH SUBCABINET,UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS THE IN
STAKEHOLDERS, SHALL:COORDINATION WITH RELEVANT

(I) COORDINATE STATE AGENCIES,THE ACTIONS OF LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS, PARTNERS;AND NONGOVERNMENTAL

(II) ON JULY 1, 2024,OR BEFORE DEVELOP AND PUBLISH A
STATE’SPLAN TO MEET THE CONSERVATION GOALS AND UPDATE THE PLAN AS
NEEDED, 5 THEREAFTER;BUT NOT LESS THAN EVERY YEARS AND

(III) ON DECEMBER 1, 2024, DECEMBEROR BEFORE AND EACH
1 THEREAFTER, SENATE EDUCATION, ENERGY,REPORT TO THE AND THE
ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE HOUSE ENVIRONMENTAND THE AND
TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE, § 2–1257 STATEIN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, STATE’SON THE PROGRESS TOWARD MEETING THE
GOALS.CONSERVATION

(2) THE SMART GROWTH SUBCABINET SHALL MAKE THE ANNUAL
(1)(III)REPORT REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION AVAILABLE ON
WEBSITE.ITS

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 546

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

Fund;171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair AND

172. LOCAL LAND TRUST REVOLVING LOAN FUND.THE

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Tax – Property

13–209.

(f) (1) (i) Except as provided in subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of this
paragraph, for any fiscal year in which the actual transfer tax revenue collections are
greater than the revenue estimates used as the basis for the appropriations required under
this section for the fiscal year, the amount of the excess shall be allocated to the special
fund under subsection (a) of this section as provided under subsections (c) and (d) of this
section for the second fiscal year following the fiscal year in which there is an excess.

1.(ii) Notwithstanding subparagraph (i) of this paragraph or
any other provision of law, $21,776,868 of the transfer tax collected but not appropriated
or transferred in fiscal 2004 shall be transferred to the General Fund of the State.

2. NOTWITHSTANDING (I)SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
LAW, 2023PARAGRAPH OR ANY OTHER PROVISION OF IF IN FISCAL YEAR THE
ACTUAL TRANSFER TAX REVENUE COLLECTIONS ARE GREATER THAN THE REVENUE
ESTIMATES USED AS THE BASIS FOR THE APPROPRIATIONS REQUIRED UNDER THIS
~~2025~~ 2023,SECTION FOR FISCAL YEAR THE AMOUNT OF THE EXCESS MAY BE

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 546 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

LOCAL LAND TRUST REVOLVING LOAN FUNDALLOCATED TO THE IN FISCAL YEAR
2025.

(iii) Notwithstanding subparagraph (i) of this paragraph or any other
provision of law, in any fiscal year in which an appropriation or transfer is made from the
special fund to the General Fund, if the actual transfer tax revenue collections for the prior
fiscal year exceed the budget estimate for the prior fiscal year, the excess shall be allocated
in the current fiscal year for Program Open Space, the Agricultural Land Preservation
Fund, the Rural Legacy Program, and the Heritage Conservation Fund. Funds made
available under this subparagraph shall be allocated as provided under subsection (d) of
this section.

SECTION ~~3.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023. Section 3 of this Act shall remain effective for a period of 3 years and, at
the end of September 30, 2026, Section 3 of this Act, with no further action required by the
General Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 12 –