PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 629

Chapter 629

(Senate Bill 540)

AN ACT concerning

Human Relations – Civil Rights Enforcement – Powers of the Attorney General

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Attorney General to investigate, prosecute, and
remediate certain civil rights violations under certain circumstances and in a certain
manner; authorizing the Attorney General to intervene in certain causes of action
under certain circumstances; establishing certain penalties and authorizing the
Attorney General to obtain certain relief in certain civil actions, conciliation
agreements, and settlement agreements; authorizing the Attorney General to
recover certain investigation and litigation costs in a certain manner; establishing
the Civil Rights Enforcement Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; requiring the
Attorney General to coordinate with the Maryland Commission on Civil Rights in
areas of overlapping jurisdiction; and generally relating to civil rights enforcement.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 20–101(a), (b), and (d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Government
Section 20–1040 through 20–1048 to be under the new part “Part III. Enforcement
by the Attorney General”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

20–101.

(a) In Subtitles 1 through 11 of this title the following words have the meanings
indicated.

(b) “Commission” means the Commission on Civil Rights.

(d) “Discriminatory act” means an act prohibited under:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 629 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) Subtitle 3 of this title (Discrimination in Places of Public
Accommodation);

(2) Subtitle 4 of this title (Discrimination by Persons Licensed or Regulated
by Maryland Department of Labor);

(3) Subtitle 5 of this title (Discrimination in Leasing of Commercial
Property);

(4) Subtitle 6 of this title (Discrimination in Employment);

(5) Subtitle 7 of this title (Discrimination in Housing); or

(6) Subtitle 8 of this title (Aiding, Abetting, or Attempting Discriminatory
Act; Obstructing Compliance).

20–1038. RESERVED.

20–1039. RESERVED.

PART III. ENFORCEMENT ATTORNEY GENERAL.BY THE

20–1040.

(A) IN THIS PART THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “ATTORNEY GENERAL” ATTORNEY GENERALMEANS THE AND THE
OFFICE ATTORNEY GENERAL.OF THE

(C) (1) “CIVIL VIOLATION”RIGHTS MEANS AN ACT OF DISCRIMINATION
U.S. CONSTITUTION, MARYLAND CONSTITUTION,PROHIBITED UNDER THE THE OR
STATE LAW.OR FEDERAL

(2) “CIVIL VIOLATION”RIGHTS INCLUDES A DISCRIMINATORY ACT AS
§ 20–101 TITLE.DEFINED IN OF THIS

20–1041.

(A) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL INVESTIGATE, PROSECUTE,MAY AND
REMEDIATE, STATE,ON BEHALF OF THE RESIDENTS OF THE ANY CONDUCT THAT
VIOLATION.CONSTITUTES A CIVIL RIGHTS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 629

(B) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL MAY NOT BRING A CIVIL RIGHTS ACTION
PART:UNDER THIS

(1) INDIVIDUAL;ON BEHALF OF AN ~~OR~~

(2) SUBDIVISION;AGAINST A POLITICAL

(3) STATEAGAINST ANY UNIT OF OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT
LAW;ESTABLISHED BY OR

(4) AGAINST ANY EMPLOYEE OR AGENT OF AN ENTITY IDENTIFIED IN
(2) (3) LAW.ITEM OR OF THIS SUBSECTION WHO IS ACTING UNDER THE COLOR OF

(C) NOTHING IN THIS PART MAY BE INTERPRETED TO IMPAIR THE RIGHTS
COMMISSION SUBTITLES 1 11AND POWERS OF THE UNDER THROUGH OF THIS
TITLE.

20–1042.

(A) IF ATTORNEY GENERALTHE HAS REASONABLE CAUSE TO BELIEVE
U.S.THAT A PERSON IS ENGAGED IN DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED BY THE
CONSTITUTION, MARYLAND CONSTITUTION, STATE LAW,THE OR OR FEDERAL THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL MAY COMMENCE A CIVIL ACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS
PART.

(B) THE CIVIL ACTION SHALL BE INSTITUTED IN THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR
WHERE:THE COUNTY

(1) THE ALLEGED VIOLATOR RESIDES OR HAS A PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BUSINESS; OR

(2) OCCURRED.THE ALLEGED VIOLATION

20–1043.

(A) TO OBTAIN RELIEF WITH RESPECT TO AN ALLEGED CIVIL RIGHTS
VIOLATION, 3AN ACTION SHALL BE COMMENCED NOT LATER THAN YEARS AFTER
DISCOVERY, OCCURRENCE, TERMINATION, LAST,THE OR WHICHEVER OCCURS OF
VIOLATION.THE ALLEGED CIVIL RIGHTS

(B) TO OBTAIN RELIEF WITH RESPECT TO AN ALLEGED BREACH OF A
TITLE,CONCILIATION OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO UNDER THIS AN
3 DISCOVERY,ACTION SHALL BE COMMENCED NOT LATER THAN YEARS AFTER THE
OCCURRENCE, BREACH.OR TERMINATION OF THE ALLEGED
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 629 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

20–1044.

(A) BEFORE ACTION, OFFICE ATTORNEYINITIATING A CIVIL THE OF THE
GENERAL SHALL CONDUCT A PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION TO DETERMINE
WHETHER THERE IS REASONABLE CAUSE TO BELIEVE THAT ANY PERSON
VIOLATION.COMMITTED A CIVIL RIGHTS

(B) DURING EXAMINATION, INVESTIGATION, HEARING, OFFICEANY OR THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL MAY:OF THE

(1) WITNESSES;SUBPOENA

(2) OATHS;ADMINISTER

(3) OATH;EXAMINE INDIVIDUALS UNDER AND

(4) RECORDS, BOOKS, PAPERS,COMPEL PRODUCTION OF
CONTRACTS, DOCUMENTS.AND OTHER

(C) ~~INFORMATION~~ UNLESS OBTAINED BY A METHOD INDEPENDENT OF A
SUBPOENA, INFORMATION OBTAINED UNDER A SUBPOENA DESCRIBED UNDER THIS
SECTION IS NOT ADMISSIBLE IN A LATER CRIMINAL PROCEEDING AGAINST THE
EVIDENCE.PERSON WHO PROVIDES THE

(D) (1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
ATTORNEY GENERAL PART.THE MAY COMMENCE A CIVIL ACTION UNDER THIS

(2) IF ATTORNEY GENERALTHE OBTAINS A CONCILIATION OR
PART,SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT UNDER THIS NO ACTION MAY BE FILED UNDER
THIS PART WITH RESPECT TO THE ALLEGED CONDUCT THAT FORMS THE BASIS FOR
THE COMPLAINT COVERED BY THE AGREEMENT EXCEPT FOR THE PURPOSE OF
AGREEMENT.ENFORCING THE TERMS OF THE

(E) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL MAY INTERVENE IN A CIVIL ACTION
VIOLATION, IF:CONCERNING AN ALLEGED CIVIL RIGHTS

(1) ATTORNEY GENERALTHE CERTIFIES THAT THE CASE IS OF
IMPORTANCE;GENERAL AND

(2) MADE.TIMELY APPLICATION IS

20–1045.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 629

(A) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL MAY SEEK AN INJUNCTION TO PROHIBIT A
VIOLATION,PERSON THAT HAS ENGAGED OR IS ENGAGING IN A CIVIL RIGHTS FROM
VIOLATION.CONTINUING OR ENGAGING IN THE

(B) IN A REQUEST FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF BROUGHT UNDER THIS
SECTION, ATTORNEY GENERAL TO:THE IS NOT REQUIRED

(1) BOND;POST

(2) ALLEGE OR PROVE THAT AN ADEQUATE REMEDY AT LAW DOES
EXIST;NOT OR

(3) ALLEGE OR PROVE THAT SUBSTANTIAL OR IRREPARABLE DAMAGE
ALLEGED.WOULD RESULT FROM ANY CONDUCT

(C) THE OFFICE ATTORNEY GENERALOF THE SHALL SERVE NOTICE OF
7THE GENERAL RELIEF SOUGHT ON THE ALLEGED VIOLATOR AT LEAST DAYS
FILED.BEFORE THE ACTION FOR AN INJUNCTION IS

(D) THE TO:COURT MAY ENTER ANY ORDER OF JUDGMENT NECESSARY

(1) PRACTICE;PREVENT THE USE BY A PERSON OF ANY PROHIBITED

(2) MONEY, PROPERTY,RESTORE TO A PERSON ANY REAL OR
PRACTICE;PERSONAL PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY MEANS OF ANY PROHIBITED OR

(3) APPOINT A RECEIVER TO PREVENT WILLFUL VIOLATION OF THIS
TITLE.

20–1046.

(A) IN PART,ANY CIVIL ACTION BROUGHT UNDER THIS OR ANY
PART,CONCILIATION OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO UNDER THIS
ATTORNEY GENERAL RELIEF,THE MAY OBTAIN AS A REMEDY EQUITABLE
INCLUDING:

(1) INJUNCTION;A PERMANENT

(2) INJUNCTION;A PRELIMINARY

(3) ORDER;A TEMPORARY RESTRAINING OR

(4) ORDER, INCLUDING:ANY OTHER

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 629 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) AN ORDER ENJOINING THE DEFENDANT FROM ENGAGING IN
VIOLATIONS;CIVIL RIGHTS OR

(II) ACTION.AN ORDER REQUIRING ANY APPROPRIATE

(B) (1) IN PART,ANY CIVIL ACTION BROUGHT UNDER THIS OR ANY
PART,CONCILIATION OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO UNDER THIS
ATTORNEY GENERALTHE MAY OBTAIN A CIVIL PENALTY TO VINDICATE THE PUBLIC
INTEREST.

(2) A CIVIL PENALTY IMPOSED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION SHALL BE IN
EXCEEDING:AN AMOUNT NOT

(I) $10,000 VIOLATION;FOR A FIRST OR

(II) $25,000 VIOLATION;FOR A SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT

(3) THE SUBSECTION:FINES PROVIDED FOR IN THIS

(I) ARE CIVIL PENALTIES AND ARE RECOVERABLE BY THE
STATE ACTION;IN A CIVIL AND

(II) CIVIL RIGHTS ENFORCEMENTSHALL BE DEPOSITED IN THE
FUND § 20–1047 PART.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(C) IN PART,ANY CIVIL ACTION BROUGHT UNDER THIS OR ANY
PART,CONCILIATION OR SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO UNDER THIS
ATTORNEY GENERAL RESTITUTION,THE MAY OBTAIN INCLUDING A REQUIREMENT
VIOLATOR:THAT THE VIOLATOR OR ALLEGED

(1) REIMBURSE THE COSTS OF THE INVESTIGATION AND LITIGATION
ATTORNEY GENERAL COMMISSION;TO THE AND THE

(2) MONEY,MAKE RESTITUTION TO ANY AGGRIEVED PERSON OF
PROPERTY, OR ANY OTHER THING RECEIVED FROM THE AGGRIEVED PERSON IN
TITLE;CONNECTION WITH A VIOLATION OR AN ALLEGED VIOLATION OF THIS

(3) PERSON;PAY ECONOMIC DAMAGES TO AN AGGRIEVED OR

(4) SECURITY.POST A PERFORMANCE BOND OR OTHER

20–1047.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 629

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” CIVIL RIGHTS ENFORCEMENTTHIS MEANS THE
FUND.

(B) THERE CIVIL RIGHTS ENFORCEMENT FUND.IS A

(C) THE FUND FOR:PURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE FUNDING

(1) ATTORNEYCIVIL RIGHTS ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES OF THE
GENERAL COMMISSION;AND THE AND

(2) EDUCATION AND OUTREACH IN THE COMMUNITY RELATING TO
VIOLATIONS.CIVIL RIGHTS

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) FUND § 20–1046CIVIL PENALTIES DEPOSITED INTO THE UNDER
PART;OF THIS

(2) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE AND

(3) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(F) THE FUND ONLY:MAY BE USED

(1) ATTORNEY GENERAL COMMISSIONTO REIMBURSE THE AND THE
FOR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTIGATING AND PROSECUTING CIVIL RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS; AND

(2) EDUCATION AND OUTREACH IN THE COMMUNITY RELATING TO
VIOLATIONS.CIVIL RIGHTS

(G) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) INTEREST FUNDEARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO THE
GENERAL FUND STATE.OF THE

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 629 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(H) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(I) MONEY FUNDOF THE IS NOT SUBJECT TO TRANSFER BY BUDGET
AMENDMENT.

(J) MONEY FUNDEXPENDED FROM THE FOR THE ENFORCEMENT
ATTORNEY GENERAL COMMISSIONACTIVITIES OF THE AND THE IS SUPPLEMENTAL
TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF FUNDING THAT WOULD
ATTORNEY GENERALOTHERWISE BE APPROPRIATED FOR THE OR THE
COMMISSION.

20–1048.

(A) IN JURISDICTION, ATTORNEY GENERALAREAS OF OVERLAPPING THE
COMMISSIONAND THE SHALL COORDINATE AND MAKE REFERRALS TO MINIMIZE
COLLABORATION.AND ELIMINATE DUPLICATION OF EFFORT AND PROMOTE

(B) (1) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, IN COORDINATION WITH THE
COMMISSION, SECTION.SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THIS

(2) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SHALL PUBLISH PROPOSED
REGULATIONS UNDER THIS SUBSECTION FOR NOTICE AND COMMENT ON OR BEFORE
JULY 1, 2024.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 8 –