PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 276

Chapter 276

(Senate Bill 558)

AN ACT concerning

Recovery Residence Grant Program – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Recovery Residence Grant Program within the
Maryland Department of Health to provide grants to recovery residences in the
State; and generally relating to the Recovery Residence Grant Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 7.5–101(a), (n), and (o) and 19–2501
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 19–2505
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

7.5–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(n) “Peer support services” means a set of nonclinical activities provided by
individuals in recovery from mental disorders, substance–related disorders, or addictive
disorders who use their personal, lived experiences and training to support other
individuals with mental disorders, substance–related disorders, or addictive disorders.

(o) “Recovery residence” means a service that:

(1) Provides alcohol–free and illicit–drug–free housing to individuals with
substance–related disorders or addictive disorders or co–occurring mental disorders and
substance–related disorders or addictive disorders; and

(2) Does not include clinical treatment services.

19–2501.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 276 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Certificate of compliance” means a certificate that is issued to a recovery
residence by a credentialing entity.

(c) “Certified recovery residence” means a recovery residence that holds a
certificate of compliance.

(d) “Credentialing entity” means a nonprofit organization that develops and
administers professional certification programs according to nationally recognized
certification standards.

(e) “Recovery residence” has the meaning stated in § 7.5–101 of this article.

19–2505.

(A) IN SECTION, “PROGRAM” RECOVERY RESIDENCETHIS MEANS THE
GRANT PROGRAM.

(B) (1) THERE RECOVERY RESIDENCE GRANT PROGRAMIS A IN THE
DEPARTMENT.

(2) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE GRANTS TO
STATE SECTION.RECOVERY RESIDENCES IN THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS

(C) THE DEPARTMENT PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) THE PROGRAM SHALL AWARD COMPETITIVE GRANTS TO RECOVERY
OPERATIONS, SERVICES, PROGRAMS.RESIDENCES TO SUPPORT AND

(E) TO PROGRAM,QUALIFY FOR A GRANT UNDER THE A RECOVERY
MUST:RESIDENCE

(1) BE A NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION IN GOOD STANDING WITH THE
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE;

(2) SUBMIT FORM 990A CURRENT COPY OF THE THAT THE
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE;ORGANIZATION FILES WITH THE

(3) BE ~~LEVEL~~ ~~II~~ ~~RECOVERY~~ ~~RESIDENCE~~CERTIFIED ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
LEVEL I, LEVEL II,~~CREDENTIALING~~ ~~ENTITY~~ BY THE CREDENTIALING ENTITY AS A
LEVEL III NATIONALOR RECOVERY RESIDENCE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ALLIANCE RECOVERY RESIDENCES STANDARDS;FOR

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 276

~~(4)~~ ~~DEMONSTRATE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RECOVERY~~ ~~RESIDENCE~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~BEEN~~
~~OPERATING~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~RECOVERY~~ ~~RESIDENCE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IMMEDIATELY~~
~~5~~ ~~YEARS;~~~~PRECEDING~~

~~(5)~~ ~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~RULES~~ ~~REGARDING~~ ~~SOBRIETY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~THAT~~
~~ENTITY;~~~~ARE~~ ~~APPROVED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CREDENTIALING~~

~~(6)~~ ~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~ZERO–TOLERANCE~~~~A~~ ~~POLICY~~ ~~REGARDING~~ ~~SUBSTANCE~~
~~RESIDENCE;~~~~AND~~ ~~ALCOHOL~~ ~~ABUSE~~ ~~WHILE~~ ~~LIVING~~ ~~AT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RECOVERY~~

~~(7)~~ ~~SERVE~~ ~~OF:~~~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESIDENCE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MINIMUM~~

~~(I)~~ ~~10~~ ~~DAY;~~~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~PER~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~30~~ ~~YEAR;~~~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~PER~~

~~(8)~~ ~~OFFER~~ ~~SERVICES,~~ ~~§~~ ~~7.5–101~~~~PEER~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~AS~~ ~~DEFINED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~
~~ARTICLE;~~~~THIS~~

~~(9)~~ ~~REGULARLY~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~MEETINGS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~RESIDENTS~~ ~~ABOUT~~
~~ABUSE;~~~~ALCOHOL~~ ~~AND~~ ~~SUBSTANCE~~

~~(10)~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~REGULAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~RANDOM~~ ~~DRUG~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ALCOHOL~~ ~~TESTING~~
~~RESIDENTS;~~~~OF~~

~~(11)~~ ~~DEMONSTRATE~~ ~~50%~~~~THAT~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~RESIDENTS~~ ~~REMAINED~~
~~SOBER~~ ~~WHILE~~ ~~LIVING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RECOVERY~~ ~~RESIDENCE~~ ~~DURING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IMMEDIATELY~~
~~2~~ ~~YEARS;~~~~PRECEDING~~ ~~AND~~

~~(12)~~ (4) NOT ACCEPT OR RECEIVE REIMBURSEMENT FROM PRIVATE
MARYLAND MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM;INSURANCE OR THE AND

(5) MEET ANY OTHER REQUIREMENT ESTABLISHED BY THE
DEPARTMENT REGULATION.IN

(F) (1) THE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISH:SHALL

(I) APPLICATION PROCEDURES;

(II) CRITERIA FOR PRIORITIZING APPLICATIONS UNDER THE
PROGRAM;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 276 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(III) PROCEDURES FOR AWARDING GRANTS UNDER THE
PROGRAM; AND

(IV) ANY OTHER PROCEDURES OR CRITERIA NECESSARY TO
SECTION.CARRY OUT THIS

(2) IN ESTABLISHING PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA UNDER THIS
SUBSECTION, DEPARTMENT ENTITY.THE SHALL CONSULT THE CREDENTIALING

(G) FOR 2024EACH OF FISCAL ~~YEAR~~ YEARS ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~
2027,~~THEREAFTER~~ THROUGH THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL SHALL INCLUDE AN
$500,000 PROGRAM.APPROPRIATION OF FOR THE

(H) ON DECEMBER 1 YEAR, 2024,OR BEFORE EACH BEGINNING IN THE
DEPARTMENT GOVERNOR AND, §SHALL SUBMIT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYOF THE THE A REPORT
INCLUDES, YEAR:THAT FOR THE MOST RECENT CLOSED FISCAL

(1) THE DISTRIBUTED;NUMBER OF GRANTS AND

(2) INFORMATION ABOUT GRANT RECIPIENTS AND PROGRAMS AND
PROVIDED.SERVICES

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 4 –