PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

Chapter 99

(Senate Bill 551)

AN ACT concerning

~~Education~~ ~~–~~ ~~Service~~ ~~Year~~ ~~Option~~ ~~Program~~ ~~–~~ ~~Establishment~~
Department of Service and Civic Innovation and Maryland Corps Program
Service Year Option Pathways – Established
(Serving Every Region Through Vocational Exploration Act of 2023)

FOR the purpose of establishing the ~~Service~~ ~~Year~~ ~~Option~~ ~~Program;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~
~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Service~~ ~~and~~ ~~Civic~~ ~~Innovation~~ ~~to~~ ~~administer~~ ~~and~~ ~~provide~~ ~~staff~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~
~~Program;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~a~~ ~~Program~~ ~~participant~~ ~~to~~ ~~work~~ ~~at~~ ~~least~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~number~~ ~~of~~ ~~hours~~
~~per~~ ~~week~~ ~~and~~ ~~partner~~ ~~with~~ ~~an~~ ~~on–site~~ ~~mentor~~ ~~while~~ ~~working~~ ~~in~~ ~~a~~ ~~service~~ ~~placement;~~
~~requiring~~ ~~a~~ ~~participating~~ ~~employer~~ ~~to~~ ~~pay~~ ~~a~~ ~~Program~~ ~~participant~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~wage;~~
~~authorizing~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~to~~ ~~disburse~~ ~~a~~ ~~stipend~~ ~~of~~ ~~up~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~amount~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~
~~Program~~ ~~participant~~ ~~who~~ ~~completes~~ ~~a~~ ~~service~~ ~~placement;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~a~~ ~~Program~~
~~participant~~ ~~to~~ ~~perform~~ ~~certain~~ ~~duties~~ ~~and~~ ~~participate~~ ~~in~~ ~~certain~~ ~~training~~ ~~and~~
~~activities~~ ~~as~~ ~~part~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~service~~ ~~placement;~~ ~~establishing~~ ~~the~~ ~~Service~~ ~~Year~~ ~~Option~~
~~Program~~ ~~Fund~~ ~~as~~ ~~a~~ ~~special,~~ ~~nonlapsing~~ ~~fund;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~interest~~ ~~earnings~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Fund~~
~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~credited~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Fund;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~to~~ ~~procure~~ ~~the~~ ~~services~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~
~~third–party~~ ~~entity~~ ~~to~~ ~~conduct~~ ~~an~~ ~~independent~~ ~~study~~ ~~and~~ ~~assessment~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Program~~
~~and~~ ~~submit~~ ~~a~~ ~~report~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor~~ ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~before~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~
~~date;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department,~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~before~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~date,~~ ~~to~~ ~~publish~~ ~~an~~ ~~online~~
~~dashboard~~ ~~of~~ ~~key~~ ~~performance~~ ~~indicators~~ ~~shown~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~report;~~ Department of Service
and Civic Innovation; providing for the purpose, duties, administration, and staffing
of the Department; establishing the Secretary of Service and Civic Innovation and
the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary; altering the provisions of the
Maryland Corps Program, including requiring the Department to administer the
Program, renaming the Board of Directors of the Maryland Corps Program to be the
Maryland Corps Program Advisory Board, establishing the Maryland Service Year
Option Pathway and the Young Adult Service Year Option Pathway as two pathways
under the Program, renaming the Maryland Corps Program Fund to be the
Maryland Service Year Option Pathway Fund, and specifying the purposes, use,
administration, and contents of the Maryland Service Year Option Pathway Fund;
establishing the Young Adult Service Year Option Pathway Fund; providing for the
purposes, use, administration, and contents of the Young Adult Service Year Option
Pathway Fund; providing for the expiration of the terms of the initial members of
the Maryland Corps Program Advisory Board; and generally relating to the
establishment of the Department of Service and Civic Innovation and the Maryland
Corps Program Service Year Option ~~Program~~ Pathways.

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Education~~
~~Section~~ ~~24–11A–01~~ ~~through~~ ~~24–11A–07~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~new~~ ~~subtitle~~ ~~“Subtitle~~ ~~11A.~~
~~Service~~ ~~Year~~ ~~Option~~ ~~Program”~~
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2022~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume)~~

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 15–106.9
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)
(As enacted by Chapter 1 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023)

BY repealing
Article – State Government
Section 9–2801 through 9–2808, the part “Part I. General Provisions”, and the
subtitle “Subtitle 28. Department of Service and Civic Innovation”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
(As enacted by Chapter 1 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023)

BY renumbering
Article – State Government
Section 9–2811 through 9–2820 and the part “Part II. Maryland Corps Program” and
9–2823 through 9–2828 and the part “Part III. Governor’s Office on Service
and Volunteerism”
to be Section 21–201 through 21–210 and the new subtitle “Subtitle 2. Maryland
Corps Program” and 21–301 through 21–306 and the new subtitle “Subtitle 3.
Governor’s Office on Service and Volunteerism”, respectively
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
(As enacted by Chapter 1 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023)

BY repealing
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)92.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY renumbering
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)93. through 171.
to be Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)92. through 170., respectively
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 8–201

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
(As enacted by Chapter 1 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023)

BY adding to
Article – State Government
Section 21–101 through 21–107 to be under the new title “Title 21. Department of
Service and Civic Innovation” and the new subtitle “Subtitle 1. General
Provisions”; and 21–206 through 21–210
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 21–201 through 21–203, 21–205, and 21–207 through 21–210
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
(As enacted by Section 2 of this Act)

BY repealing
Article – State Government
Section 21–204 and 21–206
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
(As enacted by Section 2 of this Act)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section ~~6–226(a)(2)(ii)170.~~ ~~and~~ ~~171.~~ 6–226(a)(2)(ii)169. and 170.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)
(As enacted by Section 5 of this Act)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section ~~6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.~~ ~~and~~ ~~173.~~ 6–226(a)(2)(ii)171. and 172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 9–2801 through 9–2808, the part “Part I. General Provisions”, and the
subtitle “Subtitle 28. Department of Service and Civic Innovation” of Article – State
Government of the Annotated Code of Maryland be repealed.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section(s) 9–2811 through
9–2820 and the part “Part II. Maryland Corps Program” of Article – State Government of
the Annotated Code of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 21–201 through 21–210,
respectively, and the subtitle “Subtitle 2. Maryland Corps Program”.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section(s) 9–2823 through
9–2828 and the part “Part III. Governor’s Office on Service and Volunteerism” of Article –
State Government of the Annotated Code of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s)
21–301 through 21–306, respectively, and the subtitle “Subtitle 3. Governor’s Office on
Service and Volunteerism”.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section(s) 6–226(a)(2)(ii)92 of
Article – State Finance and Procurement of the Annotated Code of Maryland be repealed.

SECTION 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section(s) 6–226(a)(2)(ii)93
through 171 of Article – State Finance and Procurement of the Annotated Code of Maryland
be renumbered to be Section(s) 6–226(a)(2)(ii)92 through 170, respectively.

SECTION ~~1.~~ ~~4.~~ 6. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GENERAL~~
~~ASSEMBLY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~ That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

15–106.9.

(a) In this section, “residency requirement” means the requirement of a public
senior higher education institution that a student has resided in the State for 12
consecutive months to be considered a resident and receive in–State tuition status.

(b) For in–State tuition purposes, a public senior higher education institution
shall waive the in–State residency requirement for an individual who has completed:

(1) All service hours for an AmeriCorps Program in the State; or

[Title(2) A service program under the Maryland Corps Program under 9,
28] TITLE 21, SUBTITLE 2Subtitle of the State Government Article.

(c) A student is responsible for the difference between in–State and out–of–state
tuition if the student does not retain residence in the State for the remainder of the school
year for which in–State tuition was received.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

Article – State Government

8–201.

(a) The Executive Branch of the State government shall have not more than 21
principal departments, each of which shall embrace a broad, functional area of that Branch.

(b) The principal departments of the Executive Branch of the State government
are:

(1) Aging;

(2) Agriculture;

(3) Budget and Management;

(4) Commerce;

(5) Disabilities;

(6) Emergency Management;

(7) the Environment;

(8) General Services;

(9) Health;

(10) Housing and Community Development;

(11) Human Services;

(12) Information Technology;

(13) Juvenile Services;

(14) Labor;

(15) Natural Resources;

(16) Planning;

(17) Public Safety and Correctional Services;

(18) SERVICE CIVIC INNOVATION;AND

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(18)] (19) State Police;

[(19)] (20) Transportation; and

[(20)] (21) Veterans Affairs.

TITLE 21. DEPARTMENT SERVICE CIVIC INNOVATION.OF AND

SUBTITLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

21–101.

(A) IN THIS TITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “DEPARTMENT” DEPARTMENT SERVICE CIVICMEANS THE OF AND
INNOVATION.

(C) “SECRETARY” SECRETARY SERVICE CIVICMEANS THE OF AND
INNOVATION.

21–102.

(A) THERE DEPARTMENT SERVICE CIVIC INNOVATION,IS A OF AND
STATE GOVERNMENT.ESTABLISHED AS A PRINCIPAL DEPARTMENT OF THE

(B) THE DEPARTMENTPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROMOTE SERVICE AND
STATE.VOLUNTEERISM IN THE

21–103.

(A) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SECRETARY SERVICEHEAD OF THE IS THE OF
CIVIC INNOVATION, GOVERNORAND WHO SHALL BE APPOINTED BY THE WITH THE
SENATE.ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE

(2) THE SECRETARY SHALL TAKE THE OATH OF OFFICE REQUIRED
ARTICLE I, § 9 MARYLAND CONSTITUTION.UNDER OF THE

(B) THE SECRETARY GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVEIS A MEMBER OF THE
COUNCIL.

(C) (1) THE SECRETARY GOVERNORSERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE
GOVERNOR.AND IS RESPONSIBLE DIRECTLY TO THE

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(2) THE SECRETARY GOVERNORSHALL ADVISE THE ON ALL
DEPARTMENTMATTERS ASSIGNED TO THE AND IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CARRYING
GOVERNOR’S MATTERS.OUT THE POLICIES ON THESE

(D) (1) THE SECRETARY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE OPERATION OF THE
DEPARTMENT AND SHALL ESTABLISH GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES TO PROMOTE
DEPARTMENT.THE ORDERLY AND EFFICIENT ADMINISTRATION OF THE

(2) THE SECRETARY ESTABLISH, REORGANIZE,MAY OR ABOLISH
DEPARTMENTAREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY IN THE AS NECESSARY TO FULFILL THE
SECRETARY.DUTIES ASSIGNED TO THE

(E) THE SECRETARY STATEIS ENTITLED TO THE SALARY PROVIDED IN THE
BUDGET.

21–104.

(A) THE SECRETARY MAY EMPLOY A STAFF IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
STATE BUDGET.

(B) THE SECRETARY DEPUTY SECRETARYMAY APPOINT A AND OTHER
PROFESSIONAL STAFF AND CONTRACT WITH CONSULTANTS AS AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVES.

(C) THE SECRETARY SHALL APPOINT AND REMOVE ALL STAFF IN
STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONSACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE AND
ARTICLE.

21–105.

(A) THE SECRETARY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BUDGET OF THE OFFICE OF
SECRETARY DEPARTMENT.THE AND THE BUDGET FOR EACH UNIT IN THE

(B) THE SECRETARY MAY ADOPT RULES AND REGULATIONS IN CARRYING
OUT THE PROVISIONS OF LAW THAT ARE WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF THE
DEPARTMENT.

(C) THE SECRETARY MAY CREATE ANY ADVISORY COUNCIL THAT THE
SECRETARY IT.CONSIDERS NECESSARY AND ASSIGN APPROPRIATE FUNCTIONS TO

(D) THE SECRETARY SEAL.SHALL HAVE A

(E) (1) THE SECRETARY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE COORDINATION AND
SECRETARY INITIATES.DIRECTION OF ALL PLANNING THAT THE OFFICE OF THE
– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) THE SECRETARY PLANS,SHALL KEEP FULLY APPRISED OF
PROPOSALS, DEPARTMENT AND,AND PROJECTS OF EACH UNIT IN THE EXCEPT AS
OTHERWISE, APPROVE, DISAPPROVE,EXPRESSLY PROVIDED MAY OR MODIFY ANY
THEM.OF

(F) EACH DEPARTMENT SECRETARYUNIT IN THE SHALL REPORT TO THE
RULES, REGULATIONS,AS PROVIDED IN THE OR WRITTEN DIRECTIVES THAT THE
SECRETARY ADOPTS.

(G) THE SECRETARY FOR, RECEIVE,MAY APPLY AND SPEND
GRANTS–IN–AID BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OR ANY OF ITS AGENCIES OR ANY
DEPARTMENTOTHER FEDERAL FUNDS MADE AVAILABLE TO THE FOR USE IN
SECRETARYCARRYING OUT THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE OR THE
DEPARTMENT.

(H) EXCEPT §§ 21–205(G)AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED BY LAW AND AND
21–206(E) TITLE, SECRETARYOF THIS THE SHALL PAY ALL MONEY COLLECTED BY
DEPARTMENT GENERAL FUND STATE.THE UNDER THIS TITLE INTO THE OF THE

(I) THE SECRETARY SHALL CARRY OUT AND ENFORCE THE PROVISIONS OF
TITLE, DEPARTMENT,THIS THE RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE AND ANY OTHER
SECRETARY DEPARTMENT.PROVISIONS OF LAW THAT RELATE TO THE OR THE

21–106.

(A) THE SECRETARY SHALL:

(1) STATEPROMOTE SERVICE AND VOLUNTEERISM IN THE BY
GOVERNMENT, GOVERNMENTS,PARTNERING WITH THE FEDERAL LOCAL AND
TITLE;NONGOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES TO FULFILL THE PURPOSES OF THIS AND

(2) IDENTIFY, DEVELOP, AND IMPLEMENT INITIATIVES TO INCREASE
STATESERVICE AND VOLUNTEERISM IN THE TO CREATE OPPORTUNITIES AND
COMMUNITIES.STRENGTHEN

(B) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(1) STATEPROMOTE THE USE OF VOLUNTEERS IN AND LOCAL
GOVERNMENT, EMPLOYERS, ORGANIZATIONS;AND NONPROFIT

(2) OF:COORDINATE AND OVERSEE THE ACTIVITIES

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(I) MARYLAND CORPS PROGRAM SUBTITLE 2THE UNDER OF
TITLE;THIS AND

(II) GOVERNOR’S COMMISSION SERVICETHE ON AND
VOLUNTEERISM;

(3) DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT MODEL PROGRAMS FOR A STATEWIDE
CLEARINGHOUSE, BANKS,SKILL OR INFORMATION CENTERS FOR VOLUNTEERS AND
STATE;PROJECTS IN THE

(4) DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT VOLUNTEER RECOGNITION EVENTS
STATEFOR VOLUNTEERS IN PROGRAMS AND PROVIDE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
SUPPORT FOR RECOGNITION EVENTS IN NONPUBLIC PROGRAMS TO INCREASE THE
ACCOMPLISHMENTS;VISIBILITY AND STATUS OF VOLUNTEERS AND THEIR

(5) ADMINISTER:

(I) MARYLAND CORPS PROGRAM SUBTITLE 2THE UNDER OF
TITLE;THIS

(II) EXECUTIVE FELLOWS PROGRAM § 21–306THE UNDER OF
TITLE;THIS AND

(III) ANY OTHER VOLUNTEER PROGRAM RECOMMENDED OR
GOVERNOR LAW;DESIGNATED BY THE OR OTHERWISE ESTABLISHED BY

(6) NATIONAL, STATE,LIAISE WITH AND LOCAL VOLUNTEERISM
FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL,GROUPS TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ON AND PRIVATE
STATE;RESOURCES THAT MAY ENHANCE VOLUNTEER PROJECTS WITHIN THE

(7) CONDUCT STUDIES AND MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO IMPROVE
TRAINING, RETENTION,VOLUNTEER RECRUITMENT AND VOLUNTEER AND
PROGRAMS;ACCOUNTABILITY OF VOLUNTEER AND

(8) GOVERNOR’S VOLUNTEERPROVIDE STAFF SUPPORT FOR THE
COUNCIL.

21–107.

(A) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL DEPARTMENT.IS LEGAL ADVISER TO THE

(B) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL DEPARTMENTSHALL ASSIGN TO THE THE
NUMBER OF ASSISTANT ATTORNEYS GENERAL AUTHORIZED BY LAW TO BE ASSIGNED

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

DEPARTMENTTO THE AND ANY ADDITIONAL ASSISTANT ATTORNEYS GENERAL
COUNSEL.NECESSARY TO GIVE EFFECTIVE LEGAL ADVICE AND

(C) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ALSO SHALL DESIGNATE AN ASSISTANT
DEPARTMENT.ATTORNEY GENERAL AS COUNSEL TO THE

Subtitle 2. Maryland Corps Program.

21–201.

[part](a) In this the following words have the meanings indicated.SUBTITLE

“ADVISORY MARYLAND CORPS PROGRAM ADVISORY(b) Board” means the
[of Program].Board Directors of the

(c) “Corps participant” means an individual who participates in the Program.

(D) “DEPARTMENT” DEPARTMENT SERVICE CIVICMEANS THE OF AND
INNOVATION.

(E) “MSY PATHWAY” MARYLAND SERVICE YEAR OPTIONMEANS THE
PATHWAY.

[(d)] (F) “MSY PATHWAY [Corps Program]Fund” means the Maryland
SERVICE YEAR OPTION PATHWAY Fund.

[(e)] (G) BUSINESS,“Participating organization” means a nonprofit
organization, or government agency that:

(1) has a focus on community or other service, service learning,
volunteerism, or other activities or experiences with a similar mission;

(2) hosts a program participant in a service role; and

(3) complies with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, and
Title 20, Subtitle 6 of this article.

[(f)] (H) “Program” means the Maryland Corps Program.

[(g)] (I) “Wraparound services” includes:

(1) child care;

(2) transportation;

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(3) housing;

[mental](4) health;BEHAVIORAL

(5) crisis intervention;

(6) substance abuse prevention or treatment;

(7) legal aid;

(8) financial literacy programming;

(9) job search and application support; and

(10) college application support.

(J) “YA PATHWAY” YOUNG ADULT SERVICE YEAR OPTIONMEANS THE
PATHWAY.

(K) “YA PATHWAY FUND” YOUNG ADULT SERVICE YEARMEANS THE
OPTION PATHWAY FUND.

21–202.

(1)(a) There is a Maryland Corps Program in the State administered and
[Board] DEPARTMENT.managed by the

(2) THE PROGRAM PATHWAYS:HAS TWO

(I) YOUNG ADULT SERVICE YEAR OPTION PATHWAY;THE AND

(II) MARYLAND SERVICE YEAR OPTION PATHWAY.THE

[(1)(b) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Program is
exempt from Division II of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(2)] The Program is subject to Title 14, Subtitle 3 of the State Finance and
Procurement Article.

(c) The purpose of the Program is to:

(1) provide meaningful service opportunities to participants thatCORPS
will address the social needs of the community;

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) equip corps participants with the skills that will enable them to
successfully make the transition from high school to an institution of higher education or
to the workforce; and

[scholarships] PROGRAM(3) provide to corpsCOMPLETION AWARDS
[toparticipants who have completed the Program be used at institutions of higher
degrees].education toward vocational certificates, associate’s degrees, or bachelor’s

(d) The Program is subject to review under § 2–1220 of this article.

21–203.

[(1)(a) A Board of Directors shall administer and manage the Program.

(2) The Board is a body politic and corporate and is an instrumentality of
the State.

(b)] (1) THERE MARYLAND CORPS PROGRAM ADVISORY BOARD.IS A

(2) ADVISORYThe Board consists of the following members:

[(1)] (I) [jointly] [Presidenta Board Chair, appointed by the of the
House] GOVERNOR;Senate and the Speaker of the

[(2)] (II) two members jointly appointed by the President of the Senate
and the Speaker of the House:

[(i)] 1. one of whom must represent a service organization in the
State; and

[(ii)] 2. one of whom shall be:

[1.] A. a current participant in a public service program; or

[2.] B. a former participant in a public service program
whose participation ended during the preceding 3 years;

[(3)] (III) one member appointed by the President of the Senate;

[(4)] (IV) one member appointed by the Speaker of the House; and

[(5)] (V) [two] members appointed by the Governor, one of whomFOUR
[Governor’s Volunteerism]shall be a representative from the Office of Service and
MARYLAND STATE SERVICE COMMISSION.

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

[(c)] (B) ADVISORYIn making appointments to the Board, the President,
Speaker, and Governor shall consider:

(1) the professional or personal experience of the individual in community
[and]or other service, nonprofit management, civic engagement, or volunteerism;

(2) the cultural, geographic, racial, ethnic, and gender diversity of the
State; AND

(3) INDIVIDUAL’SAN EXPERIENCE AND KNOWLEDGE IN WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT, NEEDS, TRAINING,INCLUDING REGIONAL WORKFORCE CAREER
PROGRAMMING, BOARDS.DEVELOPMENT AND WORKFORCE INVESTMENT

[(d)] (C) ADVISORYA member of the Board:

ADVISORY(1) may not receive compensation as a member of the Board;
but

(2) is entitled to reimbursement for expenses under the Standard State
Travel Regulations, as provided in the State budget.

[(e)] (D) ADVISORY(1) The term of a member of the Board is 4 years.

(2) The terms of the members are staggered as required by the terms
[2022] 2023.provided for members on June 1,

(3) A MEMBER MAY BE REAPPOINTED BUT MAY NOT SERVE MORE
TERMS.THAN TWO CONSECUTIVE FULL

[(3)] (4) At the end of a term, a member continues to serve until a
successor is appointed and qualifies.

[(f)] (E) (1) A member appointed by the President may be removed by the
President for the reasons stated in paragraph (5) of this subsection.

(2) A member appointed by the Speaker may be removed by the Speaker
for the reasons stated in paragraph (5) of this subsection.

(3) A member appointed by the Governor may be removed by the Governor
for the reasons stated in paragraph (5) of this subsection.

ADVISORY [jointly(4) The Board Chair may be removed by the President
Speaker] GOVERNORand the for the reasons stated in paragraph (5) of thisBY THE
subsection.

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

ADVISORY(5) A member of the Board may be removed for:

(i) incompetence;

(ii) misconduct;

(iii) immorality; or

(iv) failure to perform the duties of the position.

[(g)] (F) ADVISORY Board members are subject to the requirements of Title 5
of the General Provisions Article.

[(h)] (G) ADVISORY [once months](1) The Board shall meet at least every 2
YEAR.THREE TIMES EACH

ADVISORY(2) Board meetings are subject to the requirements of Title 3 of
the General Provisions Article.

(H) THE ADVISORY BOARD HAS THE FOLLOWING DUTIES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES:

(1) DEPARTMENT IN:BE A LIAISON WITH THE

(I) SEEKING COMMUNITY SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES AND
PROGRAM EXPANSION;OPPORTUNITIES FOR

(II) PARTICIPANTS;RECRUITING CORPS

(III) SEEKING GIFTS OR GRANTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL
PROGRAM;RESOURCES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE AND

(IV) MAINTAINING RELATIONSHIPS WITH CURRENT AND
PARTICIPANTS;FORMER CORPS

(2) DEPARTMENTADVISE THE ON BEST PRACTICES FOR SERVICE AND
VOLUNTEERISM;

(3) DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT,PROVIDE OVERSIGHT OF THE
IMPLEMENTATION, OPERATION, PROGRAM;AND EXPANSION OF THE

(4) PROGRAM–SPONSORED EVENTS;PARTICIPATE IN AND

(5) DEPARTMENT.ANY OTHER DUTIES AS DETERMINED BY THE

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

[21–204.

(a) (1) The Board shall appoint an Executive Director.

(2) The Executive Director serves at the pleasure of the Board.

(3) The Board shall determine the salary of the Executive Director.

(b) (1) The Executive Director is the chief administrative officer of the
Program.

(2) The Executive Director shall manage the administrative affairs and
technical activities of the Program in accordance with the policies and procedures that the
Board establishes.

(c) (1) The Board may employ a staff in accordance with its budget.

(2) Staff employed under this section are State employees who:

(i) are subject to the requirements of Title 5 of the General
Provisions Article; and

(ii) may participate in the State Retirement and Pension System
Article.]under Division II of the State Personnel and Pensions

[21–205.] 21–204.

THE DEPARTMENT PROGRAM.(a) SHALL ADMINISTER AND MANAGE THE

(B) [Board] DEPARTMENTThe is responsible for expanding service opportunities
PROGRAMin the State with the following goals:THROUGH THE

[Program](1) creating a strong annual cohort bond of unity for CORPS
participants from urban, rural, and suburban areas of the State;

[subject section,] [Marylanders](2) to subsection (d) of this ensuring all
have equitable access to participate in the Program regardless of gender,INDIVIDUALS
race, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability,
LANGUAGE,geography, or protected veteran status;NATIVE

[Program](3) helping participants develop the critical job skillsCORPS
necessary for creating a more equitable society as they serve their communities across the
State, using the lens of environmental, social, racial, and economic justice; and

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) ensuring each district of the State can communicate its unique
community needs and choose the appropriate solutions.

(C) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ACT AS AN INTERMEDIARY WITH THE
AMERICORPS PROGRAM TO SECURE FEDERAL FUNDING AND ALLEVIATE THE
STATEADMINISTRATIVE BURDEN ON ORGANIZATIONS SEEKING TO PARTICIPATE IN
AMERICORPS PROGRAMMING.

(2) IN AMERICORPS PROGRAMWORKING WITH THE UNDER
(1) SUBSECTION, DEPARTMENTPARAGRAPH OF THIS THE SHALL FOCUS ON
IN:EXPANDING THE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES

(I) STATE PARKS;AND LOCAL

(II) SECTORS;PUBLIC AND COMMUNITY HEALTH AND

(III) SECTOR.THE CLEAN AND RENEWABLE ENERGY

[(b)] (D) [Board] DEPARTMENTThe shall adopt regulations regarding:

(1) selection criteria for regional operating partners with a global view of
the needs of the communities in which the regional operating partner works, who will
PROGRAMidentify and implement placement priorities inFOR EACH PATHWAY
consultation with local community partners to expand capacity and create new service
programs as needed;

(2) eligibility requirements for participating organizations, classified by
[Board] DEPARTMENT [members]the based on the number of service thePLACEMENTS
organization’s grant will support, as:

(i) community employers; or

(ii) large–scale employers;

[Program](3) prioritizing the placement of participants withCORPS
[large–scale employers] [needbased on the organization’s demonstratedORGANIZATIONS
Program] [who transition]for participants will to full–timeABILITY TO TRANSITION
employment, EDUCATION,POSTSECONDARY OR REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIPS
[Program]following completion of the PLACEMENT;SERVICE

(4) a centralized process to facilitate efficient screening and placement of
[Program] participantsCORPS INTO THE APPROPRIATE SERVICE PLACEMENT OF A
PROGRAM as well as effective measurement and evaluation of thePATHWAY CORPS
participant’s service experience;

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(5) REASONABLE WORKPLACE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR CORPS
DISABILITIES;PARTICIPANTS WITH

[(5)] (6) stipends for participants, including:CORPS

STATE(i) monetary payment of at least $15 per hour OR THE
GREATER;WAGE,MINIMUM WHICHEVER IS

(II) [benefits,]health insurance and the potential forBENEFITS
wraparound services; and

[(ii)] (III) requirements for large–scale employers to provide
matching funds;

[(6)] (7) [an education] PROGRAM award of $6,000 forA COMPLETION
[service,]participants that complete at least 9 months of SERVICE THAT MAY BE
FOLLOWS:AWARDED AS

(I) [which deposited]shall be into a tax–exemptBY DEPOSIT
Maryland 529 account established under Title 18, Subtitle 19 of the Education Article and
may only be used for qualified higher education expenses, as defined in § 18–1901 of the
Article;Education OR

(II) STIPEND;PAYMENT OF A CASH

[(7)] (8) workforce development training and wraparound services
[Program] STATEprovided to participants by participating organizationsCORPS OR
AGENCIES;

[(8)] (9) [Program]additional training and support services provided to
participants after the completion of the participant’s service;CORPS CORPS

[(9)] (10) ongoing evaluation of opportunities to expand service in the
State to address the State’s workforce development needs, including opportunities within
State agencies for the creation and expansion of service opportunities within the agencies;
and

[(10)] (11) ongoing evaluation of the Program to ensure access and
effectiveness, including:

(i) demographics of corps participants, including race, ethnicity,
SEX, GENDER,age, education, and geography;

– 17 –

PAGE 18
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) PROGRAMWHETHER PATHWAYS ARE FACILITATING ENTRY
POSITIONS;INTO PUBLIC SECTOR WORKFORCE

[(ii)] (III) post–Program trajectories of corps participants; and

[(iii)] (IV) an evaluation of the needs served in the community by the
Program.

[(c) The Board may:

(1) Sue and be sued;

(2) Adopt a seal;

(3) Acquire, hold, and dispose of property for its corporate purposes;

(4) Sell, lease, or otherwise convey, in any manner that the Board considers
appropriate, any property it owns to accomplish the purposes of this subtitle;

(5) Enter into contracts and leases and execute any instrument necessary
or convenient, on the terms and for any corporate purpose that the Board considers
advisable;

(6) Use any other money available under this subtitle or any grant or
money from the State or federal government or any of their units or instrumentalities to
accomplish the purposes of this subtitle;

(7) Borrow money for a corporate purpose and mortgage or otherwise
encumber its property as security for the loan;

(8) Accept gifts, contributions, or loans of money, supplies, goods, and
services, and accept appropriations, allotments, and loans of money from the State or
federal government, a federal corporation, a unit or instrumentality of the federal
government, or a political subdivision or instrumentality of the State;

(9) Exercise a power usually possessed by a private corporation in
performing similar functions unless to do so would conflict with State law; and

(10) Do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly
subtitle.]granted by this

21–205.

(A) (1) THERE YOUNG ADULT SERVICE YEAR OPTION PATHWAYIS A IN
PROGRAM.THE

– 18 –

PAGE 19
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(2) THE YOUNG ADULT SERVICE YEAR OPTIONPURPOSE OF THE
PATHWAY TO:IS

(I) PROVIDE SERVICE PLACEMENTS TO ELIGIBLE YOUNG
ADULTS AS AN ADDITIONAL OPTION TO IMMEDIATELY PURSUING POSTSECONDARY
TRAINING;EDUCATION OR CAREER AND TECHNICAL

(II) EQUIP CORPS PARTICIPANTS WITH PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT, MENTORING, TRAINING, SKILLS,JOB FINANCIAL LITERACY AND
HIGH–IMPACT PLACEMENTS;OTHER SUPPORTS WHILE WORKING IN SERVICE

(III) STATE’SASSIST IN ADDRESSING THE GREATEST
MARYLANDCHALLENGES BY CHANNELING THE NEXT GENERATION OF CITIZENS
SERVICE;INTO IMPACTFUL PUBLIC AND

(IV) STATESTRENGTHEN A PIPELINE OF TALENT INTO AND
NEEDS.LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO FILL PRESENT AND FUTURE STAFFING

(B) AN DEPARTMENTINDIVIDUAL MAY APPLY TO THE FOR A SERVICE
YA PATHWAY IS:PLACEMENT IN THE UNDER THIS SECTION IF THE INDIVIDUAL

(1) MARYLAND APPLICATION;A RESIDENT ON SUBMISSION OF AND

(2) 3WITHIN YEARS OF GRADUATION FROM HIGH SCHOOL OR HAVING
COMPLETION,OBTAINED A SIMILAR LEVEL OF EDUCATION INCLUDING AN
A:INDIVIDUAL WHO HAS OBTAINED

(I) MARYLAND DIPLOMA;HIGH SCHOOL

(II) MARYLAND EXAMINATION;HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA BY OR

(III) MARYLAND HIGH SCHOOL CERTIFICATE PROGRAMOF
COMPLETION.

(C) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL SET TARGETS FOR PARTICIPATION IN
YA PATHWAY SECTION, INCLUDING:THE UNDER THIS

(I) 200 CORPS PARTICIPANTS IN THE FIRST YEAR OF
IMPLEMENTATION; AND

(II) 2,000 CORPS PARTICIPANTS IN THE FOURTH YEAR OF
IMPLEMENTATION.

– 19 –

PAGE 20
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(d)] (2) [Board] DEPARTMENTThe shall prioritize for participation in the
[Program] YA PATHWAY SECTION:UNDER THIS

(I) individuals historically underrepresented in:

[(1)] 1. higher education enrollment or completion; or

[(2)] 2. [by]:employment

[(i)] A. [or]large–scale and community employers;BY

[(ii)] B. organizations;participatingBY OR

C. IN PROFESSIONS AND OCCUPATIONS THAT REQUIRE
CERTIFICATION;LICENSURE OR AND

(II) ORGANIZATIONS THAT PROVIDE WRAPAROUND SERVICES
PARTICIPANTS.TO CORPS

(D) THE DEPARTMENT YASHALL DEVELOP FOCUS AREAS FOR THE
PATHWAY UNDER THIS SECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF ADDRESSING PRIORITY
STATE ISSUES, INCLUDING:AND COMMUNITY

(1) CLIMATE;

(2) EDUCATION; AND

(3) HEALTH.

(E) A CORPS PARTICIPANT WHO RECEIVES A SERVICE PLACEMENT IN THE
YA PATHWAY SHALL:UNDER THIS SECTION

(1) PARTICIPATE IN ALL TRAINING RELATED TO THE SERVICE
PLACEMENT;

(2) 30 WEEK;WORK AT LEAST HOURS PER

(3) ON–SITE MENTOR;BE PARTNERED WITH AN

(4) PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE SERVICE PLACEMENT TO THE
DEPARTMENT;SATISFACTION OF THE PARTICIPATING ORGANIZATION AND THE

(5) PROGRAM–WIDE EVENTS;PARTICIPATE IN

– 20 –

PAGE 21
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(6) $15 STATE WAGE,BE PAID PER HOUR OR THE MINIMUM
GREATER,WHICHEVER IS FOR MANDATORY WORK HOURS OR MANDATORY
PROGRAM ACTIVITIES; AND

(7) PROGRAM,ON COMPLETION OF THE BE NOTIFIED OF ALL
POST–PROGRAM OPPORTUNITIES,AVAILABLE INCLUDING REGISTERED
APPRENTICESHIPS.

(F) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROMOTE AND PUBLICIZE THE AVAILABILITY
YA PATHWAY TO:OF OPPORTUNITIES IN THE

(1) STATE;HIGH SCHOOLS AND ADULT HIGH SCHOOLS IN THE

(2) ORGANIZATIONS;COMMUNITY AND NONPROFIT

(3) FAITH–BASED INSTITUTIONS; AND

(4) EMPLOYERS THAT ARE POTENTIAL SERVICE PLACEMENT
PROVIDERS.

(G) (1) THERE YOUNG ADULT SERVICE YEAR OPTION PATHWAYIS A
FUND.

(2) THE YA PATHWAY FUND TO:PURPOSE OF THE IS

(I) PROVIDE STIPENDS TO CORPS PARTICIPANTS WITH A
YA PATHWAY SECTION;SERVICE PLACEMENT IN THE UNDER THIS

(II) YAPAY THE COSTS TO ADMINISTER AND PROMOTE THE
PATHWAY PROGRAM;UNDER THE AND

(III) ASSIST IN THE CREATION OF ADDITIONAL CORPS
§ 21–207 SUBTITLE.PROGRAMS UNDER OF THIS

(3) THE DEPARTMENT YA PATHWAY FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(4) ~~THE~~ EXCEPT (9)AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, YA PATHWAY FUND CONTINUING,THE IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.IS NOT SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(5) (I) THE STATE TREASURER YA PATHWAYSHALL HOLD THE
FUND YA PATHWAY FUNDSEPARATELY AND SHALL INVEST THE MONEY IN THE IN
STATE INVESTED.THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

– 21 –

PAGE 22
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) ANY YA PATHWAY FUNDINVESTMENT EARNINGS OF THE
FUND.SHALL BE CREDITED TO THE

(6) THE COMPTROLLER SHALL SEPARATELY ACCOUNT FOR EACH
YA PATHWAY FUND.SOURCE FOR THE

(7) THE DEPARTMENT:

(I) MAY ACCEPT ANY GIFT OR GRANT FROM ANY PERSON FOR
YA PATHWAY FUND;THE

(II) SHALL USE ANY GIFT OR GRANT THAT IT RECEIVES FOR THE
(2) SUBSECTION;PURPOSES LISTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS AND

(III) STATE TREASURERSHALL DEPOSIT WITH THE ANY GIFT OR
YA PATHWAY FUND.GRANT THAT IT RECEIVES FOR THE

(8) THE YA PATHWAY FUND OF:CONSISTS

(I) YA PATHWAY FUNDMONEY APPROPRIATED TO THE UNDER
PROGRAM STATE BUDGET;THE IN THE

(II) DEPARTMENTGIFTS OR GRANTS RECEIVED BY THE FOR
YA PATHWAY FUND;THE

(III) YA PATHWAY FUND;INVESTMENT EARNINGS OF THE AND

(IV) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED
YA PATHWAY FUND.FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE

(9) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, STATE YA PATHWAY FUNDANY UNSPENT APPROPRIATION OF THE
GENERAL FUND STATESHALL REVERT TO THE OF THE AT THE END OF THE FISCAL
YEAR.

(II) FOR 2024 2026, ~~ANY~~FISCAL YEARS THROUGH ANY
YA PATHWAY FUNDUNSPENT PORTION OF THE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED OR
GENERAL FUND STATE YAREVERT TO THE OF THE BUT SHALL REMAIN IN THE
PATHWAY FUND SUBTITLE.TO BE USED FOR THE PURPOSES SPECIFIED IN THIS

(10) BEGINNING 2024,WITH FISCAL YEAR AT THE END OF EACH FISCAL
YEAR, DEPARTMENT YATHE SHALL PREPARE AN ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
PATHWAY FUND INCLUDES:THAT

– 22 –

PAGE 23
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(I) AN ACCOUNTING OF ALL FINANCIAL RECEIPTS AND
YA PATHWAY FUND;EXPENDITURES TO AND FROM THE AND

(II) INFORMATION:THE FOLLOWING

1. THE TOTAL NUMBER OF CORPS PARTICIPANTS
CATEGORIES;DISAGGREGATED BY DEMOGRAPHIC

2. YA PATHWAYTHE TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF THE
FUNDS;DISAGGREGATED BY THE SOURCE OF THE

3. PROGRAMCORPS PARTICIPANT TRANSITION AFTER
EDUCATION, EDUCATION, FULL–TIMECOMPLETION INTO HIGHER POSTSECONDARY
EMPLOYMENT, APPRENTICESHIPS, POST–PROGRAMREGISTERED AND ANY OTHER
OPPORTUNITY;

4. THE NUMBER OF CORPS PARTICIPANTS EMPLOYED BY
STATE PROGRAM;OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AFTER COMPLETION OF THE
AND

5. PRACTICABLE,TO THE EXTENT WHAT FORMER CORPS
1 YEAR, 2 YEARS, 5PARTICIPANTS ARE DOING AND YEARS AFTER COMPLETING THE
PROGRAM.

(11) THE YA PATHWAY FUND OFFICEIS SUBJECT TO AUDIT BY THE OF
LEGISLATIVE AUDITS § 2–1220 ARTICLE.IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

21–206.

(A) (1) THERE MARYLAND SERVICE YEAR OPTION PATHWAYIS A IN THE
PROGRAM.

(2) THE MARYLAND SERVICE YEAR OPTIONPURPOSE OF THE
PATHWAY TO:IS

(I) EQUIP CORPS PARTICIPANTS WITH PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT, MENTORING, TRAINING, SKILLS,JOB FINANCIAL LITERACY AND
HIGH–IMPACT PLACEMENTS;OTHER SUPPORTS WHILE WORKING IN SERVICE

(II) STATE’SASSIST IN ADDRESSING THE GREATEST
CHALLENGES BY CHANNELING THE TALENTS OF INDIVIDUALS INTO IMPACTFUL
SERVICE;PUBLIC AND

– 23 –

PAGE 24
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(III) STATESTRENGTHEN A PIPELINE OF TALENT INTO AND
NEEDS.LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO FILL PRESENT AND FUTURE STAFFING

(B) (1) AN DEPARTMENTINDIVIDUAL MAY APPLY TO THE FOR A
MSY PATHWAYPLACEMENT IN THE UNDER THIS SECTION IF THE INDIVIDUAL IS
STATE.INTERESTED IN PERFORMING PUBLIC AND COMMUNITY SERVICE IN THE

(2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PRIORITIZE FOR PARTICIPATION IN
MSY PATHWAY ARE:THE UNDER THIS SECTION INDIVIDUALS WHO

(I) MARYLAND RESIDENTS; AND

(II) IN:HISTORICALLY UNDERREPRESENTED

1. COMPLETION;HIGHER EDUCATION ENROLLMENT OR
OR

2. BY:EMPLOYMENT

A. LARGE–SCALE EMPLOYERS;AND COMMUNITY OR

B. ORGANIZATIONS.PARTICIPATING

(3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PRIORITIZE FOR PARTICIPATION IN
MSY PATHWAYTHE UNDER THIS SECTION ORGANIZATIONS THAT PROVIDE
PARTICIPANTS.WRAPAROUND SERVICES TO CORPS

(C) A CORPS PARTICIPANT WHO RECEIVES A SERVICE PLACEMENT IN THE
MSY PATHWAY SHALL:UNDER THIS SECTION

(1) PARTICIPATE IN ALL TRAINING RELATED TO THE SERVICE
PLACEMENT;

(2) PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE SERVICE PLACEMENT TO THE
DEPARTMENT;SATISFACTION OF THE PARTICIPATING ORGANIZATION AND THE

(3) PROGRAM–WIDEPARTICIPATE IN EVENTS AS DETERMINED BY
DEPARTMENT;THE

(4) $15 STATE WAGE,BE PAID PER HOUR OR THE MINIMUM
GREATER, PROGRAM ACTIVITIES;WHICHEVER IS FOR WORK HOURS OR MANDATORY
AND

– 24 –

PAGE 25
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(5) PROGRAM,ON COMPLETION OF THE BE NOTIFIED OF ALL
POST–PROGRAM OPPORTUNITIES,AVAILABLE INCLUDING REGISTERED
APPRENTICESHIPS.

(D) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROMOTE AND PUBLICIZE THE AVAILABILITY
MSY PATHWAY TO:OF THE OPPORTUNITIES

(1) UNIVERSITIES,HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND AS DEFINED
§ 3–207 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE;IN OF THE AND

(2) COLLEGES;COMMUNITY

(3) SCHOOLS;TRADE

(4) FAITH–BASED INSTITUTIONS;

(5) WORK;YOUTH WHO ARE DISCONNECTED FROM SCHOOL OR AND

(6) EMPLOYERS AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS WITH POTENTIAL
MSY PATHWAY SECTION.SERVICE PLACEMENTS FOR THE UNDER THIS

[21–206.

(a) The Board shall act as an intermediary with the AmeriCorps Program to
secure federal funding and alleviate the administrative burden on State organizations
seeking to participate in AmeriCorps programming.

(b) In working with the AmeriCorps Program under subsection (a) of this section,
the Board shall focus on expanding the service opportunities in State and local parks and
sector.]in the public health

[21–207.]

[(a)] (E) (1) [Corps Program] SERVICE YEAR OPTIONThere is a Maryland
PATHWAY Fund.

[(b)] (2) MSY PATHWAYThe purpose of the Fund is to:

[(1)] (I) provide stipends to corps participants WITH A SERVICE
MSY PATHWAY SECTION;PLACEMENT IN THE UNDER THIS

[(2)] (II) PROGRAM [scholarships]provide toCOMPLETION AWARDS
[tocorps participants who have completed the Program be used at institutions of higher

– 25 –

PAGE 26
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

education in the State toward vocational certificates, associate’s degrees, and bachelor’s
degrees];

[(3)] (III) [Board] DEPARTMENT,cover expenses incurred by the
including expenses incurred to study the potential use of the Program as a workforce
development tool in the State;

[(4)] (IV) cover expenses incurred to study how alumni of the Program
could be better positioned to meet the current and future needs of employers in the State;
[and]

[(5)] (V) [Program] MSY PATHWAYprovide funding for the UNDER
[Board] DEPARTMENTto match gifts or grants received by the for theTHIS SECTION
MSY PATHWAY Fund; AND

(VI) ASSIST IN THE CREATION OF ADDITIONAL CORPS
§ 21–207 SUBTITLE.PROGRAMS UNDER OF THIS

[(c)] (3) [Board] DEPARTMENT MSY PATHWAYThe shall administer the
Fund.

[(d)] (4) EXCEPT (10)~~The~~ AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, MSY PATHWAY Fund is a continuing, nonlapsing fund that is notTHE
subject to § 7–302 of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

[(e) (1)] (5) (I) MSY PATHWAYThe State Treasurer shall hold the Fund
MSY PATHWAYseparately and shall invest the money in the Fund in the same manner
as other State money may be invested.

[(2)] (II) MSY PATHWAYAny investment earnings of the Fund shall be
credited to the Fund.

[(f)] (6) The Comptroller shall account forSEPARATELY FOR EACH SOURCE
MSY PATHWAYthe Fund.

[(g)] (7) [Board] DEPARTMENT:The

[(1)] (I) MSYmay accept any gift or grant from any person for the
PATHWAY Fund;

[(2)] (II) shall use any gift or grant that it receives for the reasons stated
[subsection section] (2)under (b) of this SUBSECTION; andPARAGRAPH OF THIS

– 26 –

PAGE 27
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

[(3)] (III) MSYshall deposit any gift or grant that it receives for the
PATHWAY Fund with the State Treasurer.

[(h)] (8) MSY PATHWAYThe Fund consists of:

[(1)] (I) [§ subtitle]money appropriated under 9–2818 of this
(F) SECTION;SUBSECTION OF THIS

[(2)] (II) [Board] DEPARTMENTgifts or grants received by the for the
MSY PATHWAY Fund;

[(3)] (III) MSY PATHWAYinvestment earnings of the Fund; and

[(4)] (IV) any other money from any other source accepted for the benefit
MSY PATHWAYof the Fund.

[(i)] (9) MSY PATHWAY [for:The Fund may be used only

(1) providing stipends to corps participants;

(2) providing scholarships to corps participants who have completed the
Program to be used at institutions of higher education in the State toward vocational
certificates, associate’s degrees, and bachelor’s degrees;

(3) covering expenses incurred by the Board, including expenses incurred
to study the potential use of the Program as a workforce development tool in the State;

(4) covering expenses incurred to study how alumni of the Program could
be better positioned to meet the current and future needs of employers in the State; and

(5) Providing funding for the Program to match gifts or grants received by
Fund] (2)the Board for the FOR THE PURPOSES DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION.

[(j)] (10) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, STATE MSY PATHWAY FUNDANY UNSPENT APPROPRIATION OF THE
GENERAL FUND STATESHALL REVERT TO THE OF THE AT THE END OF THE FISCAL
YEAR.

(II) FOR 2024 2026, ~~Any~~ unspentFISCAL YEARS THROUGH ANY
MSY PATHWAYportion of the Fund may not be transferred or revert to the General Fund
MSY PATHWAYof the State but shall remain in the Fund to be used for the purposes
specified in this subtitle.

– 27 –

PAGE 28
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(k) (1)] (11) (I) [2018] 2024, [the]Beginning with fiscal year at the end of
[Board] DEPARTMENT MSYfiscal year, the shall prepare an annual report of theEACH
PATHWAY includes:Fund that

1. an accounting of all financial receipts and expenditures to
MSY PATHWAY Fund;and from the AND

2. INFORMATION:THE FOLLOWING

A. THE TOTAL NUMBER OF CORPS PARTICIPANTS
CATEGORIES;DISAGGREGATED BY DEMOGRAPHIC

B. MSY PATHWAYTHE TOTAL ANNUAL COST OF THE
FUNDS;DISAGGREGATED BY THE SOURCE OF THE

C. PROGRAMCORPS PARTICIPANT TRANSITION AFTER
EDUCATION, EDUCATION, FULL–TIMECOMPLETION INTO HIGHER POSTSECONDARY
EMPLOYMENT, APPRENTICESHIPS, POST–PROGRAMREGISTERED AND ANY OTHER
OPPORTUNITY;

D. THE NUMBER OF CORPS PARTICIPANTS EMPLOYED BY
STATE PROGRAM;OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AFTER COMPLETION OF THE
AND

E. PRACTICABLE,TO THE EXTENT WHAT FORMER CORPS
1 YEAR, 2 YEARS, 5PARTICIPANTS ARE DOING AND YEARS AFTER COMPLETING THE
PROGRAM.

[(2)] (II) [Board] DEPARTMENTThe shall submit a copy of the report to
the General Assembly in accordance with § 2–1257 of this article.

[(l)] (12) MSY PATHWAYThe Fund may be subject to an audit by the
Legislative Auditor.

[21–208.]

[(a)] (F) (1) The Governor shall include in the annual budget bill an
MSY PATHWAYappropriation to the Fund of:

[(1)] (I) $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2024;

[(2)] (II) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2025;

[(3)] (III) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2026; and

– 28 –

PAGE 29
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

[(4)] (IV) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2027 and each fiscal year thereafter.

[(b)] (2) that[:It is the intent of the General Assembly

(1)] [subsection section]appropriations made under (a) of this
(1) are in addition to any federal funding received forPARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
programming[;State service or volunteer and

(2) Any federal funding received by the State for service or volunteer
Program].programming shall be deposited into the Fund for use by the

[(c)] (3) [subsection section]Appropriations made under (a) of this
(1) [Board]and other funding received by thePARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
DEPARTMENT MSY PATHWAY shall be used to:FOR THE UNDER THIS SECTION

[(1)] (I) provide stipends to corps participants WITH A SERVICE
MSY PATHWAY SECTION;PLACEMENT IN THE UNDER THIS

[(2)] (II) [scholarships] PROGRAMprovide toCOMPLETION AWARDS
[tocorps participants who have completed the Program be used at institutions of higher
education in the State toward vocational certificates, associate’s degrees, and bachelor’s
degrees];

[(3)] (III) [Board] DEPARTMENT,cover expenses incurred by the
including expenses incurred in marketing and recruitment; and

[(4)] (IV) cover programmatic expenses to expand service opportunities
including[:throughout the State,

(i) In partnership with regional operating partners, creating and
maintaining an online platform through which individuals and corps participants can
search and apply for service opportunities throughout the State;

Expanding](ii) the Chesapeake Conservation CorpsEXPANDING
Article[;Program, as provided under §§ 8–1913 through 8–1924 of the Natural Resources

(iii) creating a Maryland Civilian Climate Corps to conserve and
restore State and local parks and engage in other climate or environmental projects;

(iv) creating a Maryland Historic Trades Corps to place young adults
and young veterans in regionally based work crews tasked with rehabilitation of State
historic resources;

– 29 –

PAGE 30
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(v) expanding the Maryland Conservation Corps to engage in
projects that manage natural resources and conserve parks; and

Program].(vi) Providing staff for the

[(d) Marketing and recruitment conducted by the Program under subsection (c)(3)
of this section shall prioritize:

(1) Historically black colleges and universities, as defined in § 3–207 of the
State Finance and Procurement Article;

(2) Community colleges;

(3) High schools with low rates of matriculation to 2– and 4–year
institutions of higher education;

(4) Trade schools; and

work.](5) Youth who are disconnected from school or

[21–209.] 21–207.

(A) (1) [Board] DEPARTMENTThe shall explore the possibility of:

[(1)] (I) accessing federal or other grant funding for the Program; and

[(2)] (II) with:awarding corps participants

1. service;academic credit for their OR

2. CREDIT FOR PRIOR LEARNING EXPERIENCE TOWARD
CERTIFICATION.TRADE OR VOCATIONAL

(2) THE DEPARTMENT MARYLANDSHALL CONSULT WITH THE
HIGHER EDUCATION COMMISSION, INSTITUTIONS OF POSTSECONDARY
EDUCATION, MARYLAND DEPARTMENT LABOR,THE OF AND ANY OTHER ENTITY
DEPARTMENTTHE DETERMINES RELEVANT IN DETERMINING THE FEASIBILITY OF
(1) SUBSECTION.IMPLEMENTING THE PROVISIONS OF PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(B) THE DEPARTMENT YA PATHWAY FUNDMAY USE MONEY FROM THE
§ 21–205 MSY PATHWAY FUND § 21–206UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE AND THE UNDER
TO:OF THIS SUBTITLE

– 30 –

PAGE 31
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(1) MARYLAND CIVILIAN CLIMATE CORPSCREATE A TO CONSERVE
STATEAND RESTORE AND LOCAL PARKS AND ENGAGE IN OTHER CLIMATE OR
PROJECTS;ENVIRONMENTAL

(2) MARYLAND HISTORIC TRADES CORPSCREATE A TO PLACE
YOUNG ADULTS AND YOUNG VETERANS IN REGIONALLY BASED WORK CREWS
STATE RESOURCES;TASKED WITH REHABILITATION OF HISTORIC AND

(3) MARYLAND CONSERVATION CORPSEXPAND THE TO ENGAGE IN
PARKS.PROJECTS THAT MANAGE NATURAL RESOURCES AND CONSERVE

21–208.

(A) ON JUNE 1, 2027, DEPARTMENTOR BEFORE THE SHALL CONTRACT
WITH A PUBLIC OR PRIVATE ENTITY TO CONDUCT AN INDEPENDENT EVALUATION OF
PROGRAM.THE

(B) THE EVALUATE:INDEPENDENT EVALUATION SHALL

(1) THE BENEFITS TO THE COMMUNITIES BEING SERVED BY THE
PROGRAM;

(2) THE BENEFITS TO CORPS PARTICIPANTS WHO COMPLETED THE
PROGRAM, INCLUDING EFFICACY IN TRANSITIONING CORPS PARTICIPANTS TO
EDUCATION, WORKFORCE,POSTSECONDARY THE OR REGISTERED
APPRENTICESHIPS;

(3) PROGRAM’STHE EFFICACY OF THE PROFESSIONAL
PROGRAMMING, TRAINING,DEVELOPMENT AND MENTORING IN SUPPORTING THE
STATE’S NEEDS;WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT

(4) PROGRAM DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION,THE AND OVERALL
OUTCOMES;EFFICIENCY IN DELIVERING INTENDED AND

(5) ANY PROGRAMADDITIONAL METRICS DEVELOPED BY THE
DEPARTMENT.

(C) ON JULY 1, 2028, DEPARTMENTOR BEFORE THE SHALL SUBMIT A
GOVERNOR AND,REPORT ON ITS FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE IN
§ 2–1257 ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS THE ON THE
RESULTS OF THE INDEPENDENT EVALUATION CONDUCTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
SECTION.THIS

– 31 –

PAGE 32
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(D) BEGINNING OCTOBER 1, 2028, DEPARTMENTON THE SHALL PUBLISH
AN ONLINE DASHBOARD OF KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AS DETERMINED IN
(C) SECTION.THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

[21–210.] 21–209.

[Board] DEPARTMENTOn or before December 1 each year, the shall report to the
Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of this article, the General Assembly regarding:

(1) the number and amount of stipends awarded under the Program;

BUSINESSES, ORGANIZATIONS,(2) the nonprofit or government agencies
with which corps participants are placed;

(3) the institutions, if any, that award academic credit for a corps
participant’s service;

[scholarships] PROGRAM(4) the number and amount of COMPLETION
awarded under the Program; andAWARDS

[at which](5) institutionsTHE POSTSECONDARY EDUCATIONAL AT
[scholarships] PROGRAMcorps participants use their AWARDS.WHICH COMPLETION

~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~11A.~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OPTION~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~

~~24–11A–01.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~WORDS~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANINGS~~
~~INDICATED.~~

~~(B)~~ ~~“DEPARTMENT”~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~CIVIC~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AND~~
~~INNOVATION.~~

~~(C)~~ ~~“FUND”~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OPTION~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~FUND.~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~

~~(D)~~ ~~“PARTICIPATING~~ ~~EMPLOYER”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRIVATE~~ ~~ENTITY~~
~~PROGRAM.~~~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~AS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMPLOYER~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~

~~(E)~~ ~~“PROGRAM”~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OPTION~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~

~~(F)~~ ~~“PROGRAM~~ ~~PARTICIPANT”~~ ~~WHO:~~~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~

– 32 –

PAGE 33
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

~~(1)~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~DIPLOMA,~~ ~~GED,~~~~RECEIVED~~ ~~A~~ ~~HIGH~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~COMPARABLE~~
~~2~~~~PROOF~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EQUIVALENT~~ ~~EDUCATIONAL~~ ~~LEVEL~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~YEARS~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~APPLYING~~
~~PROGRAM;~~~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~PLACEMENT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(2)~~ ~~QUALIFIES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~PLACEMENT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~ALTERNATIVE~~
~~SECRETARY.~~~~CRITERIA~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~

~~(G)~~ ~~“SECRETARY”~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~CIVIC~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AND~~
~~INNOVATION.~~

~~(H)~~ ~~“SERVICE~~ ~~PLACEMENT”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~JOB~~ ~~ASSIGNMENT~~ ~~DESIGNATED~~ ~~TO~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SUBTITLE.~~~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~24–11A–02.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THERE~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OPTION~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~STATE.~~~~IS~~ ~~A~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~TO:~~~~PURPOSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IS~~

~~(1)~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~PLACEMENTS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECENT~~ ~~HIGH~~ ~~SCHOOL~~
~~GRADUATES~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~SIMILAR~~ ~~LEVELS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~AS~~ ~~AN~~
~~ADDITIONAL~~ ~~OPTION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PURSUING~~ ~~CAREER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~TECHNICAL~~ ~~TRAINING~~ ~~OR~~
~~EDUCATION;~~~~POSTSECONDARY~~

~~(2)~~ ~~EQUIP~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~PARTICIPANTS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~PROFESSIONAL~~
~~DEVELOPMENT,~~ ~~MENTORING,~~ ~~TRAINING,~~~~JOB~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~WHILE~~ ~~WORKING~~
~~HIGH–IMPACT~~ ~~PLACEMENTS;~~~~IN~~ ~~SERVICE~~

~~(3)~~ ~~HELP~~ ~~STATE’S~~~~ADDRESS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GREATEST~~ ~~CHALLENGES~~ ~~BY~~
~~WORK;~~~~CHANNELING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NEXT~~ ~~GENERATION~~ ~~INTO~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~IMPACT~~ ~~AND~~

~~(4)~~ ~~STRENGTHEN~~ ~~STATE~~~~A~~ ~~PIPELINE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~TALENT~~ ~~INTO~~ ~~AND~~ ~~LOCAL~~
~~NEEDS.~~~~GOVERNMENTS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~FILL~~ ~~PRESENT~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FUTURE~~ ~~STAFFING~~

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~SHALL:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~ADMINISTER~~ ~~PROGRAM;~~~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~STATE~~~~STAFF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~BUDGET.~~

~~24–11A–03.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~SHALL:~~

– 33 –

PAGE 34
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(1)~~ ~~DESIGN~~ ~~PROGRAM;~~~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~IDENTIFY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~WORK~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~ENTITIES~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~MAY~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~STATE;~~~~RECEIVE~~ ~~GRANTS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~SERVE~~ ~~AS~~ ~~REGIONAL~~ ~~LEADERS~~ ~~ACROSS~~ ~~THE~~

~~(3)~~ ~~CREATE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~A~~ ~~STATEWIDE~~ ~~NETWORK~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ALL~~
~~STATE;~~~~PARTICIPANTS~~ ~~ACROSS~~ ~~THE~~

~~(4)~~ ~~PROMOTE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~AND~~ ~~COMMUNICATE~~ ~~OPPORTUNITIES~~ ~~TO~~
~~SCHOOLS,~~ ~~INSTITUTIONS,~~ ~~ORGANIZATIONS,~~~~HIGH~~ ~~RELIGIOUS~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~AND~~
~~STATE;~~~~POTENTIAL~~ ~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~EMPLOYERS~~ ~~ACROSS~~ ~~THE~~

~~(5)~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~DEVELOP~~ ~~AND~~ ~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~CENTRAL~~ ~~APPLICATION~~
~~PROCESS;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~ASSIST~~ ~~PROCESS;~~~~APPLICANTS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPLICATION~~

~~(6)~~ ~~BUILD~~ ~~UP–TO–DATE~~~~AND~~ ~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACCURATE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ONLINE~~
~~PLACEMENTS;~~~~PORTAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~MANAGE~~ ~~OPENINGS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~SERVICE~~

~~(7)~~ ~~IDENTIFY~~ ~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~EMPLOYERS~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~CAN~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~A~~ ~~WIDE~~
~~BENEFITS,~~~~ARRAY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~MENTORING~~ ~~AND~~ ~~CAREER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~COLLEGE~~
~~COACHING;~~

~~(8)~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PRACTICABLE,~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~THE~~ ~~EXTENT~~ ~~SELECT~~ ~~PARTICIPANTS~~
~~GENDER,~~ ~~RACIAL,~~ ~~ETHNIC,~~~~THAT~~ ~~REFLECT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~GEOGRAPHIC~~ ~~DIVERSITY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~STATE;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(9)~~ ~~EVALUATE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~THE~~ ~~OVERALL~~ ~~OPERATIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~
~~ENTITY.~~~~COLLABORATION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDEPENDENT~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~SHALL~~ ~~SET~~ ~~TARGETS~~ ~~FOR~~
~~PARTICIPATION,~~ ~~INCLUDING:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~200~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~PARTICIPANTS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FIRST~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OF~~
~~IMPLEMENTATION;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~2000~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~PARTICIPANTS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOURTH~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OF~~
~~IMPLEMENTATION.~~

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~SHALL~~ ~~DEVELOP~~ ~~FOCUS~~ ~~AREAS~~ ~~TO~~
~~ISSUES,~~ ~~INCLUDING:~~~~ADDRESS~~ ~~PRIORITY~~

– 34 –

PAGE 35
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

~~(1)~~ ~~CLIMATE;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~EDUCATION;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~HEALTH.~~

~~24–11A–04.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~WHILE~~ ~~PLACEMENT,~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~WORKING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~A~~
~~SHALL:~~~~PARTICIPANT~~

~~(I)~~ ~~WORK~~ ~~30~~ ~~WEEK;~~~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~HOURS~~ ~~PER~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~PARTNER~~ ~~ON–SITE~~ ~~PROVIDES:~~~~WITH~~ ~~AN~~ ~~MENTOR~~ ~~WHO~~

~~1.~~ ~~JOB~~ ~~TRAINING;~~

~~2.~~ ~~CAREER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~POSTSECONDARY~~ ~~EDUCATION~~
~~COUNSELING;~~

~~3.~~ ~~FINANCIAL~~ ~~SKILLS;~~~~LITERACY~~ ~~AND~~

~~4.~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~NEEDED.~~~~OTHER~~ ~~SUPPORT~~

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~EMPLOYER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PAY~~ ~~A~~
~~$15~~ ~~HOUR.~~~~PARTICIPANT~~ ~~PER~~

~~(B)~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(C)~~ ~~(D)~~ ~~SECTION,~~~~TO~~ ~~SUBSECTIONS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~$3,000~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~MAY~~ ~~DISBURSE~~ ~~A~~ ~~STIPEND~~ ~~OF~~ ~~UP~~ ~~TO~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~
~~PLACEMENT.~~~~PARTICIPANT~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~COMPLETES~~ ~~A~~ ~~SERVICE~~

~~(C)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SHALL:~~~~PARTICIPANT~~

~~(1)~~ ~~PERFORM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DUTIES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~PLACEMENT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT;~~~~SATISFACTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PARTICIPATING~~ ~~EMPLOYER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~PARTICIPATE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~TRAINING~~ ~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SERVICE~~
~~PATHWAYS;~~~~PLACEMENT~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FUTURE~~ ~~CAREERS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~EDUCATIONAL~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~PARTICIPATE~~ ~~PROGRAM–WIDE~~ ~~TO:~~~~IN~~ ~~EVENTS~~

~~(I)~~ ~~EXPAND~~ ~~PARTICIPANT’S~~ ~~NETWORK;~~~~THE~~ ~~PROFESSIONAL~~

~~(II)~~ ~~MAKE~~ ~~PROGRAM;~~~~CONNECTIONS~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

– 35 –

PAGE 36
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(III)~~ ~~TAKE~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESOURCES.~~~~ADVANTAGE~~ ~~OF~~

~~(D)~~ ~~AS~~ ~~NEEDED,~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~DISBURSE~~ ~~A~~ ~~PRORATED~~ ~~STIPEND~~
~~CASE–BY–CASE~~ ~~BASIS.~~~~AMOUNT~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~

~~24–11A–05.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THERE~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OPTION~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~FUND.~~~~IS~~ ~~A~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~TO:~~~~PURPOSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IS~~

~~(1)~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~PARTICIPANTS;~~~~STIPENDS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~PAY~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~~~THE~~ ~~COSTS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ADMINISTER~~ ~~THE~~

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~FUND.~~~~SHALL~~ ~~ADMINISTER~~ ~~THE~~

~~(D)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~CONTINUING,~~~~IS~~ ~~A~~ ~~NONLAPSING~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~SUBJECT~~
~~§~~ ~~7–302~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~FINANCE~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~TO~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(E)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~TREASURER~~ ~~FUND~~~~SHALL~~ ~~HOLD~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SEPARATELY~~
~~FUND~~~~AND~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INVEST~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MONEY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~ ~~MANNER~~ ~~AS~~ ~~OTHER~~
~~STATE~~ ~~INVESTED.~~~~MONEY~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~BE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~FUND~~~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~EARNINGS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~CREDITED~~
~~FUND.~~~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

~~(F)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMPTROLLER~~ ~~FUND.~~~~SHALL~~ ~~ACCOUNT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(G)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~ACCEPT~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~GIFT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~GRANT~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~FUND;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~USE~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~GIFT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~GRANT~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IT~~ ~~RECEIVES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~(B)~~ ~~SECTION;~~~~PURPOSES~~ ~~LISTED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~TREASURER~~~~DEPOSIT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~GIFT~~ ~~OR~~
~~FUND.~~~~GRANT~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IT~~ ~~RECEIVES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(H)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~OF:~~~~CONSISTS~~

– 36 –

PAGE 37
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

~~(1)~~ ~~MONEY~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~STATE~~~~APPROPRIATED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~BUDGET;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~GIFTS~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~OR~~ ~~GRANTS~~ ~~RECEIVED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~FUND;~~

~~(3)~~ ~~INVESTMENT~~ ~~FUND;~~~~EARNINGS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(4)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~MONEY~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~SOURCE~~ ~~ACCEPTED~~ ~~FOR~~
~~FUND.~~~~THE~~ ~~BENEFIT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~FUND~~~~UNSPENT~~ ~~PORTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~BE~~ ~~TRANSFERRED~~ ~~OR~~
~~GENERAL~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~FUND~~~~REVERT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BUT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REMAIN~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~~~TO~~ ~~BE~~ ~~USED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PURPOSES~~ ~~SPECIFIED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(J)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~LEGISLATIVE~~~~IS~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AUDIT~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~AUDITS~~ ~~§~~ ~~2–1220~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~GOVERNMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~24–11A–06.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROCURE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~
~~THIRD–PARTY~~ ~~ENTITY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDEPENDENT~~ ~~STUDY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ASSESSMENT~~ ~~OF~~
~~PROGRAM.~~~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EMPLOY:~~~~STUDY~~ ~~SHALL~~

~~(I)~~ ~~RANDOM~~ ~~ASSIGNMENT,~~ ~~ETHICAL;~~~~IF~~ ~~FEASIBLE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~RESEARCH~~ ~~METHODS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~ALLOW~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~INFERENCES,~~~~STRONGEST~~ ~~POSSIBLE~~ ~~CAUSAL~~ ~~IF~~ ~~RANDOM~~ ~~ASSIGNMENT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~
~~INSTANCE.~~~~FEASIBLE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ETHICAL~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(B)~~ ~~ON~~ ~~JULY~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2028,~~ ~~THIRD–PARTY~~~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ENTITY~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~SUBMIT~~
~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~AND,~~~~A~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~ON~~ ~~ITS~~ ~~FINDINGS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~RECOMMENDATIONS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~
~~§~~ ~~2–1257~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~GOVERNMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE,~~ ~~GENERAL~~~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~
~~ASSEMBLY.~~

~~(C)~~ ~~ON~~ ~~OCTOBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2028,~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PUBLISH~~
~~AN~~ ~~ONLINE~~ ~~DASHBOARD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~KEY~~ ~~PERFORMANCE~~ ~~INDICATORS~~ ~~SHOWN~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REPORT~~
~~(B)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~24–11A–07.~~

– 37 –

PAGE 38
Ch. 99 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ADOPT~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~NECESSARY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CARRY~~ ~~OUT~~
~~SUBTITLE,~~ ~~ON:~~~~THIS~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~

~~(1)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROCESS;~~~~APPLICATION~~

~~(2)~~ ~~ELIGIBILITY~~ ~~REQUIREMENTS;~~

~~(3)~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~REQUIREMENTS;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(4)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STIPENDS.~~~~DISBURSEMENT~~ ~~OF~~

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]~~170.~~ 169. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

Fund;~~171.~~ 170. the Community Reinvestment and Repair
~~AND~~

~~172.~~ 171. YOUNG ADULT SERVICE YEAR OPTIONTHE
~~PROGRAM~~ PATHWAY FUND; AND

~~173.~~ 172. MARYLAND SERVICE YEAR OPTIONTHE
PATHWAY FUND.

~~SECTION~~ ~~2.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act~~ ~~shall~~ ~~take~~ ~~effect~~ ~~July~~
~~1,~~ ~~2023.~~

SECTION ~~5.~~ 7. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the terms of the initial
members of the Maryland Corps Program Advisory Board under § 21–203 of the State
Government Article, as enacted by Section 4 of this Act, shall expire as follows:

– 38 –

PAGE 39
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(1) the terms of the one member appointed by the President of the Senate,
the one member appointed by the Speaker of the House, and two members appointed by
the Governor shall expire on June 30, 2025; and

(2) the terms of the chair of the Advisory Board, the two members jointly
appointed by the President and the Speaker, and two members appointed by the Governor
shall expire on June 30, 2026.

SECTION ~~6.~~ 8. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act is an emergency
measure, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health or safety, has
been passed by a yea and nay vote supported by three–fifths of all the members elected to
each of the two Houses of the General Assembly, and shall take effect from the date it is
enacted.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 39 –