PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 369

Chapter 369

(Senate Bill 581)

AN ACT concerning

Behavioral Health Care Coordination Value–Based Purchasing Pilot Program

FOR the purpose of establishing the Behavioral Health Care Coordination Value–Based
Purchasing Pilot Program in the Maryland Department of Health to establish and
implement an intensive care coordination model using value–based purchasing in
the specialty behavioral health system; and generally relating to the Behavioral
Health Care Coordination Value–Based Purchasing Pilot Program.

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 13–4801 through 13–4807 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 48.
Behavioral Health Care Coordination Value–Based Purchasing Pilot
Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

SUBTITLE 48. BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE COORDINATION VALUE–BASED
PURCHASING PILOT PROGRAM.

13–4801.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “BEHAVIORAL COORDINATION”HEALTH CARE MEANS A
PERSON–CENTERED, TEAM–BASED TO:ACTIVITY DESIGNED

(1) ASSESS AND MEET THE NEEDS OF AN INDIVIDUAL WITH A
CONDITION;BEHAVIORAL HEALTH AND

(2) HELP THE INDIVIDUAL NAVIGATE THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
EFFICIENTLY.EFFECTIVELY AND

(C) “PILOT PROGRAM” BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CAREMEANS THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 369 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

COORDINATION VALUE–BASED PURCHASING PILOT PROGRAM.

(D) “VALUE–BASED PURCHASING” MEANS FINANCIALLY INCENTIVIZING
MEASURES.PROVIDERS TO MEET SPECIFIED OUTCOME

13–4802.

THERE BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE COORDINATION VALUE–BASEDIS A
PURCHASING PILOT PROGRAM DEPARTMENT.IN THE

13–4803.

THE PILOT PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO ESTABLISH AND IMPLEMENT AN
VALUE–BASEDINTENSIVE CARE COORDINATION MODEL USING PURCHASING IN THE
SYSTEM.SPECIALTY BEHAVIORAL HEALTH

13–4804.

(A) THE DEPARTMENT PILOT PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(B) THE DEPARTMENT 500SHALL IDENTIFY AT LEAST ADULTS WHOSE
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CONDITION OR FUNCTIONING PLACES THEM AT RISK OF
HOSPITAL EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT UTILIZATION OR INPATIENT PSYCHIATRIC
ADMISSION.HOSPITAL

(C) THE PILOT PROGRAM 3–YEAR PERIOD.SHALL BE OPERATIONAL FOR A

(D) A PROVIDER, PROVIDERS,OR NETWORK OF SELECTED TO PARTICIPATE
PILOT PROGRAM SHALL:IN THE

(1) BE MARYLANDLICENSED AND IN GOOD STANDING WITH THE
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM;

(2) HAVE COMMUNITY–BASEDEXPERIENCE IN PROVIDING CARE
RECIPIENTS;COORDINATION TO SPECIALTY BEHAVIORAL HEALTH PROGRAM

(3) USE AN ELECTRONIC MEDICAL RECORD FOR DOCUMENTING CARE
COLLECTION;COORDINATION ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES AND

(4) HAVE AN AUTOMATED DATA EXCHANGE WITH THE
STATE–DESIGNATED EXCHANGE.HEALTH INFORMATION

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 369

(E) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(1) PROVIDE REIMBURSEMENT ON A PER MEMBER PER MONTH BASIS
FOR THE BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE COORDINATION ACTIVITIES THAT ARE NOT
MARYLAND MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM;OTHERWISE COVERED BY THE

(2) COLLECT OUTCOMES DATA ON RECIPIENTS OF HEALTH CARE
PILOT PROGRAM;SERVICES UNDER THE AND

(3) EVALUATE VALUE–BASEDTHE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE
MEASURES:PURCHASING MODEL BY ANALYZING THE FOLLOWING OUTCOME

(I) A COMPARISON OF THE FOLLOWING DATA ELEMENTS
BEFORE AND AFTER ENROLLMENT OF RECIPIENTS OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES
PILOT PROGRAM:UNDER THE

1. EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT UTILIZATION FOR BOTH
PURPOSES;BEHAVIORAL AND SOMATIC HEALTH

2. INPATIENT HOSPITALIZATION FOR BOTH
PURPOSES;BEHAVIORAL AND SOMATIC HEALTH AND

3. TOTAL EXPENDITURES;HEALTH CARE

(II) OUTCOMES FOR RECIPIENTS WITH AND WITHOUT PRIMARY
PROVIDER;CARE SERVICES COORDINATED BY A BEHAVIORAL HEALTH AND

(III) RECOGNIZED CLINICAL QUALITY METRICS WHICH MAY
MEASURES.INCLUDE PATIENT EXPERIENCE

13–4805.

IF PILOT PROGRAM, DEPARTMENTNECESSARY TO IMPLEMENT THE THE
CENTERS MEDICARE MEDICAID SERVICESSHALL APPLY TO THE FOR AND FOR AN
STATE’S § 1115 HEALTHCHOICE DEMONSTRATION.AMENDMENT TO THE

13–4806.

(A) FOR 2025 2027, GOVERNOREACH OF FISCAL YEARS THROUGH THE
$600,000SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF FOR
PILOT PROGRAM.THE

(B) BEGINNING 2026, DEPARTMENTIN FISCAL YEAR THE SHALL ALLOCATE
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 369 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

A PERCENTAGE OF THE ANNUAL APPROPRIATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION
(A) OF THIS SECTION TO REIMBURSEMENT PAID BASED ON THE ACHIEVEMENT OF
§ 13–4804(E)(3) SUBTITLE.THE OUTCOME MEASURES DESCRIBED IN OF THIS

(C) IN 2027, DEPARTMENTFISCAL YEAR THE SHALL INCREASE THE
(A)PERCENTAGE OF THE ANNUAL APPROPRIATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION
OF THIS SECTION ALLOCATED TO REIMBURSEMENT PAID IN ACCORDANCE WITH
(B)SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION OVER THE PERCENTAGE ALLOCATED IN FISCAL
2026.YEAR

13–4807.

ON NOVEMBER 1, 2027, DEPARTMENTOR BEFORE THE SHALL REPORT TO
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTTHE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY DEPARTMENT’STHE ON THE FINDINGS AND
PILOT PROGRAM.RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023. It shall remain effective for a period of 4 years and 2 months and, at the
end of November 30, 2027, this Act, with no further action required by the General
Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 3, 2023.

– 4 –