PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 612

Chapter 612

(Senate Bill 554)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland National Guard – Tricare Premium Reimbursement Program –
Establishment
(Health Care for Heroes Act of 2023)

FOR the purpose of establishing the Tricare Premium Reimbursement Program in the
Military Department for the Department to award grants to reimburse certain
members of the National Guard for the cost of premiums for certain health care and
dental care plans; requiring the Department to adopt regulations to administer and
implement the Program; and generally relating to the Tricare Premium
Reimbursement Program.

BY adding to
Article – Public Safety
Section 13–411
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

13–411.

(A) IN SECTION, “ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT”THIS MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO
IS:

(1) TRICARE RESERVE SELECT COVERAGE;ELIGIBLE FOR AND

(2) NATIONAL GUARD.A MEMBER OF THE

(B) THERE TRICARE PREMIUM REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAMIS A IN THE
DEPARTMENT.

(C) ~~THE~~ SUBJECT (D) SECTION, DEPARTMENTTO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
MAY AWARD GRANTS TO AN ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT WHO MEETS THE REIMBURSEMENT
FOLLOWING:APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR ANY OF THE

(1) A PREMIUM PAID FOR INDIVIDUAL COVERAGE THROUGH THE
TRICARE RESERVE SELECT PROGRAM;
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 612 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) A PREMIUM PAID FOR ANY MEMBER OF THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
TRICARE RESERVE SELECTOF AN ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT COVERED UNDER THE
PROGRAM;

(3) A PREMIUM PAID FOR INDIVIDUAL COVERAGE UNDER THE
TRICARE DENTAL PROGRAM; OR

(4) A PREMIUM PAID FOR ANY MEMBER OF THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
TRICAREOF AN ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT RECEIVING DENTAL BENEFITS UNDER THE
DENTAL PROGRAM.

(D) A GRANT AWARD TO AN ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT MAY REIMBURSE THE
$60ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT FOR UP TO OF THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF PREMIUMS PAID
EACH MONTH BY THE ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT FOR THE COVERAGES LISTED UNDER
(C) SECTION.SUBSECTION OF THIS

~~(D)~~ (E) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT
TRICARE PREMIUM REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAMAND ADMINISTER THE
SECTION.ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 12, 2023.

– 2 –