PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 129

Chapter 129

(Senate Bill 639)

AN ACT concerning

Historic St. Mary’s City Commission Reform Act of 2023

FOR the purpose of altering certain provisions of law governing the Historic St. Mary’s City
Commission, including laws relating to membership of the Commission,
appointment of certain officers, meeting times, and duties; specifying the process for
the Commission to collaborate with ~~the~~ ~~Historic~~ ~~St.~~ ~~Mary’s~~ ~~City~~ ~~Foundation~~ an
affiliated nonprofit organization; and generally relating to the Historic St. Mary’s
City Commission.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 24–505, 24–506, 24–507(b), and 24–508
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 24–508.1 and 24–511(h)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section 24–511(a)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

24–505.

[seventeen(a) The Historic St. Mary’s City Commission consists of members.

Commission](b) Of the members:THE FOLLOWING

[Thirteen] FOURTEEN(1) shall be appointed byVOTING MEMBERS WHO
the Governor with the advice and consent of the Senate as follows:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 129 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) Three shall be distinguished scholars, one of whom shall be an
archaeologist, one of whom shall be a colonial historian, and one of whom shall be an
educator;

(ii) One shall be a representative from a prominent historical
museum;

(iii) Three shall be members of the Maryland business community,
one of whom is in business in the St. Mary’s County community; ~~AND~~

~~[Six]~~ ~~SEVEN~~(iv) shall be members of the general public, at least two
of whom are residents of the St. Mary’s County community; AND

(V) ONE NATIVESHALL BE A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
AMERICAN COMMUNITY, MARYLANDAPPOINTED IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
COMMISSION INDIAN AFFAIRS;ON

(2) TWO FOLLOWS:VOTING MEMBERS AS

(I) ONE PUBLIC,MEMBER OF THE APPOINTED BY THE
PRESIDENT SENATE;OF THE AND

(II) ONE PUBLIC,MEMBER OF THE APPOINTED BY THE
SPEAKER HOUSE;OF THE AND

[(2)] (3) [voting]Two shall be ex officio members as follows:

(i) The chairman of the St. Mary’s College of Maryland Board of
Trustees or the chairman’s designee MEMBER; andWHO IS A VOTING

Foundation[;(ii) The President of the Historic St. Mary’s and

(3) Two shall be ex officio nonvoting members as follows:

(i) The President of the Senate of Maryland or the President’s
designee; and

designee](ii) The Speaker of the House of Delegates or the Speaker’s
MEMBER.WHO IS A NONVOTING

[(c)] (B) The Governor shall consider statewide, regional, and minority
representation in making appointments to the Commission.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 129

[(d)] (C) (1) The term of a member of the Commission, excluding an ex officio
member, is 4 years and until a successor is appointed and qualifies. These terms are
staggered as required by the terms of members as of July 1, 1997.

(2) A member appointed to fill a vacancy in an unexpired term serves only
for the remainder of that term and until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

(3) A member may be appointed to no more than two full consecutive terms.
A member who has served less than a full 4–year term may be reappointed to two full
terms.

24–506.

(a) (1) From among its members the Commission shall elect:

(i) A chairman;

(ii) A vice chairman; and

(iii) Any other officer the Commission requires.

(I) [The] SUBJECT (II)(2) TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, manner of election of officers and their terms of office shall be as theTHE
Commission determines.

(II) OFFICERS COMMISSIONOF THE SHALL BE SELECTED FROM
COMMISSION.THE APPOINTED MEMBERS OF THE

(b) (1) The Commission shall adopt bylaws setting forth the manner in which
it will conduct its business and otherwise carry out the duties assigned to it, including the
establishment of standing committees to propose policies, review operations, and advise the
Commission in the areas of:

(i) Land use, archaeology, historical research, collections
management, and capital projects;

(ii) Educational programming, public programs, and public affairs
with a view to expanding the knowledge of and appreciation for Historic St. Mary’s City to
the region, State, and nation;

(iii) Long–range planning, fund–raising, from both public and private
sources, as well as other revenue raising programs with a view to securing long–term
financial capital and operating support for Historic St. Mary’s City; and

(iv) Financial and administrative affairs, including property
management, personnel, procurement, legal, accounting, audit, and investment policies.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 129 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) The chairman of the Commission shall appoint each Commissioner to
one of the standing committees and such other committees as the Commission from time to
time determines to appoint for special purposes. The chairman shall designate a chair of
each committee.

(c) (1) There shall be an executive committee of the Commission which shall
have as its members the chairman, the vice chairman, and the chair of each standing
committee.

(2) The executive committee shall be delegated such powers as the
Commission shall determine by resolution or by law and shall report to the full Commission
all actions taken or considered by the committee at the next meeting of the full Commission.

(I)(d) (1) The full Commission shall meet at least two times a year at
Historic St. Mary’s City.

(II) THE COMMISSIONFULL MAY MEET MORE THAN TWO TIMES
HISTORIC ST. MARY’S CITY VIRTUALLY.A YEAR AT OR

(2) The executive committee shall meet at least four times a year, or such
additional meetings as are necessary or convenient for the proper direction of Historic St.
Mary’s City.

(3) Standing committees shall meet or confer as necessary to review and
recommend action to the executive committee or full Commission, as the case may be, as
issues within their purview arise.

[(2)] (4) A majority of the voting members then serving on the
Commission is a quorum.

(e) A Commissioner may not receive compensation, but is entitled to be
reimbursed for expenses incurred while actually engaged in the performance of the
Commissioner’s duties in accordance with the Standard State Travel Regulations.

24–507.

(b) In addition to any duties provided elsewhere in this subtitle, the Commission
has the following duties:

(1) To maintain and carry out the mission of Historic St. Mary’s City;

(2) To protect and preserve the historical and archaeological resources
found within the boundaries of Historic St. Mary’s City;

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 129

(3) To identify, study, curate, interpret, and develop the significant historic
and archaeological resources of Historic St. Mary’s City with emphasis on the 17th century
colonial period;

(4) To enhance the role of Historic St. Mary’s City as a statewide
educational center for historical archaeology and Maryland colonial history and ultimately
to raise national awareness of the place of St. Mary’s City, its history, people, and ideas in
our nation’s development;

(5) To develop close working relationships with public and private
elementary and secondary schools, local and statewide businesses and governmental
agencies, and conduct activities to educate the general public about the history and
significance of Historic St. Mary’s City to the State of Maryland and the nation;

(6) To seek private and other public grants, gifts, bequests, endowments,
and legacies for the development and use of Historic St. Mary’s City;

(7) To review and comment on all plans for use and development of the
archaeologically or historically significant land and real property of St. Mary’s College of
Maryland during the initial planning stage, to conduct such review at a special or regular
meeting of the Commission after public notice of the general nature of the plans to be
reviewed by the Commission, and thereafter to forward all such comments coincident with
any submission made by the College pursuant to § 3–602 of the State Finance and
Procurement Article;

(8) To prepare an overall strategic plan at least once every 5 years that
establishes both short–range and long–range goals, objectives, and priorities for Historic
[and]St. Mary’s City in support of its mission;

(9) TO DEVELOP AND PUBLISH WRITTEN POLICIES REGARDING THE
COMMISSION’S PROCEDURES, ON:OPERATING INCLUDING POLICIES

(I) PROCUREMENT;

(II) HUMAN RESOURCES;

(III) PAYROLL;

(IV) CASH MANAGEMENT;

(V) FLEET MANAGEMENT; AND

(VI) PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INCLUDING RENTAL TENANT
LISTS;WAITING

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 129 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(10) TO DEVELOP A COMPREHENSIVE MAINTENANCE PLAN AND TO
3 YEARS;UPDATE THE PLAN AT LEAST ONCE EVERY

(11) TO REVIEW:ANNUALLY

(I) THE COMMISSION’S AGREEMENTS;OPERATING AND

(II) THE COMMISSION’S POLICIES ON OPERATING
PROCEDURES; AND

[(9)] (12) To report annually to the Governor, and subject to § 2–1257 of
the State Government Article, to the General Assembly as to the Commission’s activities
during the preceding year, including specifically:

(i) The number of students served as well as the type and numbers
of all other visitors;

(ii) The number of volunteers and total hours contributed to the
operation of the museum;

(iii) The amount and types of private and nonstate funds donated,
pledged, or otherwise provided; and

(iv) Any recommendations or requests the Commission considers
appropriate to further the mission of Historic St. Mary’s City.

24–508.

(1)(a) The Historic St. Mary’s City Commission and the Board of Trustees of
St. Mary’s College of Maryland are hereby authorized to undertake joint programs and
otherwise to work collaboratively under contract or other agreement acceptable to the
governing boards of each institution, for the purpose of furthering the missions of both
institutions.

[(b)] (2) The Commission and the College may contract or otherwise agree to
work jointly to sponsor high quality education programs and activities for both the
academic and general communities and for all age groups, including elementary, secondary,
college, and adult education programs as well as teacher training programs in curriculum
areas of joint focus, such as archaeology, colonial American history, and Chesapeake
culture and ecology.

[(c)] (3) The Commission and College may develop jointly beneficial,
promotional, marketing, fundraising, tourism, special events, and other outreach efforts.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 129

[(d)] (4) [or agreement]The College and Commission may by contract mutual
perform administrative tasks by one institution for the other including, but not limited to,
personnel, procurement and insurance claim processing, purchasing, accounting,
information system design, acquisition, installation and service, security, maintenance,
historic landscape design, catering and general food services, and archaeological survey
and mitigation services.

[(e)] (5) Provided they are supportive of the distinctive mission of each
institution, the Commission and College may undertake any other joint activity or action
by formal or informal agreement or contract.

[(f)] (6) Notwithstanding any joint activities or programs carried out by the
College and the Commission, or administrative action undertaken by the College or the
Commission for the benefit of the other institution, neither the College nor the Commission
shall be liable for any direct or indirect actions of the other institution, or its trustees,
Commissioners, employees, or agents as the case may be.

(7) IF COMMISSIONTHE OBTAINS SERVICES UNDER AN AGREEMENT
COLLEGE, COMMISSIONWITH THE THE SERVICES PROVIDED TO THE SHALL BE IN
COLLEGE’S PROCEDURES.ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICIES AND

(B) AN COMMISSIONOPERATING AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BY THE WITH
STATEANOTHER UNIT OF GOVERNMENT OR AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT
BE:ORGANIZATION SHALL

(1) EXECUTED WRITING;IN

(2) APPROVED FOR FORM AND LEGAL SUFFICIENCY BY THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL;

(3) REVIEWED COMMISSION ANNUALLY;BY THE AND

(4) ENACTED 3 YEARS,FOR A TERM NOT EXCEEDING WHICH MAY BE
3 YEARS, LIMIT.RENEWED FOR ADDITIONAL TERMS NOT EXCEEDING WITHOUT

24–508.1.

(A) IN SECTION, ~~“FOUNDATION~~THIS AFFILIATED NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION” HISTORIC ST. MARY’S CITY FOUNDATION.~~MEANS~~ INCLUDES THE

(B) THE COMMISSION IS ENCOURAGED TO PROMOTE PRIVATE
FUNDRAISING BY STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES AND
~~HISTORIC~~ ~~ST.~~ ~~MARY’S~~ ~~CITY~~ ~~FOUNDATION~~MAY COLLABORATE WITH ~~THE~~
ORGANIZATIONS.AFFILIATED NONPROFIT

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 129 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) (1) THE COMMISSION SHALL DEVELOP POLICIES FOR
~~FOUNDATION~~COLLABORATION WITH ~~THE~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION.

(2) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SHALL REVIEW THE POLICIES THE
COMMISSION (1)DEVELOPS UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION FOR FORM
AND, APPROPRIATE,AND LEGAL SUFFICIENCY IF APPROVE THEM TO GOVERN THE
COLLABORATION.

(3) THE STATE ETHICS COMMISSION SHALL REVIEW THE POLICIES
COMMISSION (1)THE DEVELOPS UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION THAT
AND, APPROPRIATE,PERTAIN TO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IF APPROVE THEM TO
COMMISSIONGOVERN AN OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE OF THE ALSO SERVING AS A
~~FOUNDATION~~DIRECTOR OR OFFICIAL OF ~~THE~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION.

(D) (1) ~~THE~~ ~~FOUNDATION~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION
STATEMAY NOT BE CONSIDERED AN AGENCY OR INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE OR A
EXECUTIVE BRANCH PURPOSE.UNIT OF THE FOR ANY

(2) A ~~FOUNDATION~~FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR LIABILITY OF ~~THE~~ AN
AFFILIATED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION MAY NOT BE CONSIDERED A DEBT OR AN
STATE COMMISSION.OBLIGATION OF THE OR THE

(E) (1) SECTIONS 5–501 5–504 GENERAL PROVISIONSTHROUGH OF THE
ARTICLE COMMISSIONDO NOT PROHIBIT AN OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE OF THE FROM
~~FOUNDATION~~ALSO BECOMING A DIRECTOR OR AN OFFICIAL OF ~~THE~~ AN AFFILIATED
ORGANIZATION.NONPROFIT

(2) AN COMMISSIONOFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE OF THE WHO SERVES AS
~~FOUNDATION~~A DIRECTOR OR OFFICIAL OF ~~THE~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION:

(I) MAY COMPENSATED, INDIRECTLY,NOT BE DIRECTLY OR BY
~~FOUNDATION~~ ORGANIZATION;~~THE~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT AND

(II) MAY BE REIMBURSED FOR BONA FIDE EXPENSES INCURRED
IN THE PERFORMANCE OF ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN ON BEHALF OF ~~THE~~
~~FOUNDATION~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION AS AUTHORIZED BY THE
~~FOUNDATION~~BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF ~~THE~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT
COMMISSION.ORGANIZATION AND BY THE

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 129

(3) (I) THE COMMISSION STATE ETHICSSHALL NOTIFY THE
COMMISSION COMMISSIONIN WRITING WHENEVER THE AUTHORIZES AN OFFICIAL
COMMISSIONOR EMPLOYEE OF THE TO SERVE AS A DIRECTOR OR OFFICIAL OF ~~THE~~
~~FOUNDATION~~ ORGANIZATION.AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT

(II) WITHIN 30 DAYS AFTER RECEIPT OF THE NOTICE UNDER
(I) PARAGRAPH, STATE ETHICS COMMISSIONSUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS THE SHALL
COMMISSIONNOTIFY THE OF ANY OBJECTIONS OR CONCERNS PERTAINING TO THE
NOTICE.JOINT SERVICE IDENTIFIED IN THE

(III) ON STATE ETHICSRECEIPT OF A NOTICE FROM THE
COMMISSION (II) PARAGRAPH, COMMISSIONUNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
MATTER.SHALL REEXAMINE THE

(4) EACH YEAR, COMMISSIONTHE SHALL REPORT TO THE
GOVERNOR, STATE ETHICS COMMISSION, AND, § 2–1257THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, LEGISLATIVE POLICY COMMITTEE:OF THE THE

(I) THE NAMES OF THE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES SERVING
~~FOUNDATION~~AS A DIRECTOR OR OFFICIAL OF ~~THE~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION; AND

(II) HOW THE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED UNDER
(C)SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION HAVE BEEN IMPLEMENTED IN THE PRECEDING
YEAR.

(F) (1) NO COMMISSIONFUNDS MAY BE ACCEPTED BY THE FROM ~~THE~~
~~FOUNDATION~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION UNLESS AN
INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT AUDITS THE FISCAL AFFAIRS OF
~~FOUNDATION~~ YEAR.THE AFFILIATED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION EACH

(2) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, COMMISSION ~~FOUNDATION~~FUNDS GIVEN TO THE BY ~~THE~~ AN
AFFILIATED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION MAY NOT INCLUDE PRECONDITIONS ON
FUNDS.THE USE OF THE

(II) FUNDS COMMISSIONGIVEN TO THE THROUGH ~~THE~~
~~FOUNDATION~~ AN AFFILIATED NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION FROM A DONOR MAY
DONOR’S REQUEST.INCLUDE CONDITIONS AT THE

24–511.

(a) (1) There is a Historic St. Mary’s City Fund.

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 129 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(H) THE FUND OFFICE LEGISLATIVEIS SUBJECT TO AUDIT BY THE OF
AUDITS § 2–1220 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.AS PROVIDED IN OF THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That a presently existing obligation
or contract right may not be impaired in any way by this Act.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before December 31,
2023, the Historic St. Mary’s City Commission shall report to the General Assembly, in
accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, on the Commission’s progress
in addressing the concerns raised by its most recent independent audit.

SECTION ~~3.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
June 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 10 –