PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 805

Chapter 805

(Senate Bill 691)

AN ACT concerning

Home Amenity Rentals – Sales and Use Tax Imposed and Local Tax Authorized

FOR the purpose of applying the sales and use tax to a sale or use of certain home amenity
rentals; authorizing a county or municipality to impose a certain home amenity
rental tax under certain circumstances and subject to certain limitations; and
generally relating to the taxation of home amenity rentals.

BY renumbering
Article – Tax – General
Section 11–101(c–6) through (c–8)
to be Section 11–101(c–10) through (c–12), respectively
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Tax – General
Section 11–101(a) and (l)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Tax – General
Section 11–101(c–6) through (c–9)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Tax – General
Section 11–101(k)(1), (l)(5) and (6), and (o)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Local Government
Section 20–901 through 20–911 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 9. Local Home
Amenity Rental Tax”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 805 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 11–101(c–6) through (c–8) of Article – Tax – General of the Annotated Code
of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 11–101(c–10) through (c–12), respectively.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Tax – General

11–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(C–6) “HOME AMENITY” PORTION,MEANS ANY WHETHER INDOORS OR
OUTDOORS, PROPERTY,OF A RESIDENTIAL EXCLUDING BEDROOMS OR ANY
QUARTERS,PORTION OF THE PROPERTY INTENDED FOR SLEEPING THAT IS
15 CONSECUTIVELY.OCCUPIED BY THE HOUR AND FOR NOT MORE THAN HOURS

(C–7) “HOME RENTAL”AMENITY MEANS THE TEMPORARY USE IN EXCHANGE
AMENITY.FOR CONSIDERATION OF A HOME

(C–8) (1) “HOME INTERMEDIARY” PERSON,AMENITY RENTAL MEANS A
PROVIDER,OTHER THAN A HOME AMENITY RENTAL WHO FACILITATES THE SALE OR
USE OF A HOME AMENITY AND CHARGES A BUYER THE TAXABLE PRICE FOR THE
RENTAL.HOME AMENITY

(2) FOR SUBSECTION,PURPOSES OF THIS A PERSON SHALL BE
CONSIDERED TO FACILITATE THE SALE OR USE OF A HOME AMENITY IF THE PERSON
BROKERS, COORDINATES, OR IN ANY OTHER WAY ARRANGES FOR THE SALE OR USE
BUYER.OF A HOME AMENITY BY A

(C–9) “HOME PLATFORM” INTERNET–BASEDAMENITY RENTAL MEANS AN
THAT:DIGITAL ENTITY

(1) AMENITIES;ADVERTISES THE AVAILABILITY OF HOME AND

(2) RECEIVES COMPENSATION FOR FACILITATING RESERVATIONS OR
OWNER, OPERATOR,PROCESSING BOOKING TRANSACTIONS ON BEHALF OF THE OR
AMENITY.MANAGER OF A HOME

(k) (1) “Tangible personal property” means:

(i) corporeal personal property of any nature;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 805

[or](ii) an accommodation;

rental;(iii) a short–term OR

(IV) RENTAL.A HOME AMENITY

(l) (1) “Taxable price” means the value, in money, of the consideration of any
kind that is paid, delivered, payable, or deliverable by a buyer to a vendor in the
consummation and complete performance of a sale without deduction for any expense or
cost, including the cost of:

(i) any labor or service rendered;

(ii) any material used; or

(iii) any property, digital code, or digital product sold.

includes[,]:(5) “Taxable price”

(I) for the sale or use of an accommodation facilitated by an
accommodations intermediary or a short–term rental platform, the full amount of the
consideration paid by a buyer for the sale or use of an accommodation, but not including
authority;any tax that is remitted to a taxing AND

(II) FOR THE SALE OR USE OF A HOME AMENITY RENTAL
FACILITATED BY A HOME AMENITY RENTAL INTERMEDIARY OR HOME AMENITY
PLATFORM,RENTAL THE FULL AMOUNT OF CONSIDERATION PAID BY A BUYER FOR
RENTAL,THE SALE OR USE OF A HOME AMENITY BUT NOT INCLUDING ANY TAX THAT
AUTHORITY.IS REMITTED TO A TAXING

include[,]:(6) “Taxable price” does not

(I) for the sale or use of an accommodation facilitated by an
accommodations intermediary or a short–term rental platform, a commission paid by an
accommodation;accommodations provider to a person after facilitating the sale or use of an
OR

(II) FOR THE SALE OR USE OF A HOME AMENITY RENTAL
FACILITATED BY A HOME AMENITY RENTAL INTERMEDIARY OR HOME AMENITY
PLATFORM,RENTAL A COMMISSION PAID BY A HOME AMENITY RENTAL PROVIDER
RENTAL.TO A PERSON AFTER FACILITATING THE SALE OR USE OF A HOME AMENITY

(o) (1) “Vendor” means a person who:

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 805 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) engages in the business of an out–of–state vendor, as defined in
§ 11–701 of this title;

(ii) engages in the business of a retail vendor, as defined in § 11–701
of this title;

(iii) holds a special license issued under § 11–707 of this title;

(iv) is an accommodations intermediary OR A HOME AMENITY
INTERMEDIARY;RENTAL

(v) is a short–term rental platform OR HOME AMENITY RENTAL
PLATFORM;

(vi) engages in the business of a marketplace facilitator; or

(vii) engages in the business of a marketplace seller.

Article – Local Government

SUBTITLE 9. LOCAL HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX.

PART I. COUNTY HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX.

20–901.

(A) IN THIS PART THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “HOME AMENITY” PORTION,MEANS ANY WHETHER INDOORS OR
OUTDOORS, PROPERTY,OF A RESIDENTIAL EXCLUDING BEDROOMS OR ANY
QUARTERS,PORTION OF THE PROPERTY INTENDED FOR SLEEPING THAT IS
15 CONSECUTIVELY.OCCUPIED BY THE HOUR AND FOR NOT MORE THAN HOURS

(C) “HOME RENTAL”AMENITY MEANS THE TEMPORARY USE IN EXCHANGE
AMENITY.FOR CONSIDERATION OF A HOME

(D) “HOME CHARGE”AMENITY RENTAL MEANS A CHARGE FOR A HOME
RENTAL, SERVICES.AMENITY EXCLUDING ANY CHARGE FOR

(E) “HOME TAX”AMENITY RENTAL MEANS THE TAX ON A HOME AMENITY
CHARGE.RENTAL

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 805

(F) “WESTERN MARYLAND COUNTY”CODE MEANS A CODE COUNTY IN THE
WESTERN MARYLAND § 9–302 ARTICLE.CLASS AS ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

20–902.

THIS TO:PART APPLIES ONLY

(1) COUNTY;A CHARTER

(2) COUNTY;A CODE

(3) CALVERT COUNTY;

(4) CARROLL COUNTY;

(5) CECIL COUNTY;

(6) GARRETT COUNTY;

(7) ST. MARY’S COUNTY;

(8) SOMERSET COUNTY; AND

(9) WASHINGTON COUNTY.

20–903.

(A) A IMPOSE, RESOLUTION,COUNTY MAY BY A HOME AMENITY RENTAL
TAX.

(B) (1) THIS CALVERT COUNTY,SUBSECTION APPLIES ONLY TO
CHARLES COUNTY, ST. MARY’S COUNTY.AND

(2) THE GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY SHALL HOLD A PUBLIC
TAX.HEARING BEFORE IMPOSING A HOME AMENITY RENTAL

(3) THE HEARING:

(I) SHALL BE ADVERTISED TWICE IN A NEWSPAPER OF
10 HEARING;GENERAL CIRCULATION IN THE COUNTY AT LEAST DAYS BEFORE THE
AND

(II) HEARING.MAY NOT BE PART OF THE ANNUAL BUDGET

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 805 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

20–904.

(A) SUBJECT SECTION,TO THIS THE HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX RATE IS
RESOLUTION.THE RATE THAT THE COUNTY SETS BY

(B) THE EXCEED:HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX RATE MAY NOT

(1) SECTION, 1.5%EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS IN A
COUNTY;CODE

(2) 1.5% CECIL COUNTY;IN

(3) 2% TALBOT COUNTY;IN

(4) 2.5% CALVERT COUNTY, CARROLL COUNTY, CHARLESIN
COUNTY, DORCHESTER COUNTY, FREDERICK COUNTY, ST. MARY’S COUNTY, AND
SOMERSET COUNTY;

(5) 3% WICOMICO COUNTY;IN AND

(6) 4% GARRETT COUNTY.IN

(C) WITH COMMISSIONERS:THE UNANIMOUS CONSENT OF THE COUNTY

(1) WESTERN MARYLANDA CODE COUNTY OTHER THAN A CODE
2.5%;COUNTY MAY SET A HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX RATE UP TO AND

(2) WESTERN MARYLANDA CODE COUNTY MAY SET A HOME AMENITY
4%.RENTAL TAX RATE UP TO

(D) THE WASHINGTON COUNTY 3%.HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX RATE IN IS

20–905.

TO ORDERLY, SYSTEMATIC,PROVIDE FOR THE AND THOROUGH
TAX,ADMINISTRATION OF THE HOME AMENITY RENTAL A COUNTY MAY ADOPT
THAT:REGULATIONS

(1) PART;ARE CONSISTENT WITH THIS AND

(2) CONFORM TO THE APPLICABLE PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
TITLE 11 TAX – GENERAL ARTICLE.FOR THE SALES AND USE TAX UNDER OF THE

20–906. RESERVED

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 805

20–907. RESERVED.

PART II. MUNICIPAL HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX.

20–908.

THE § 20–901 PART.DEFINITIONS IN OF THIS SUBTITLE APPLY IN THIS

20–909.

(A) EXCEPT (B) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS A
IMPOSE, RESOLUTION,MUNICIPALITY MAY BY ORDINANCE OR A HOME AMENITY
TAX.RENTAL

(B) A MUNICIPALITY MAY NOT IMPOSE A HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX IF THE
MUNICIPALITY IS LOCATED IN A COUNTY THAT DOES NOT IMPOSE A HOME AMENITY
SUBTITLE.RENTAL TAX UNDER THIS

20–910.

(A) SUBJECT (B) SECTION,TO SUBSECTION OF THIS A MUNICIPALITY SHALL
TAX.SET THE RATE OF THE HOME AMENITY RENTAL

(B) THE HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX FOR A MUNICIPALITY MAY NOT
1%.EXCEED

20–911.

A MUNICIPALITY THAT IMPOSES A HOME AMENITY RENTAL TAX MAY PROVIDE
TAX.FOR THE ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION OF THE

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, ~~2023~~ 2024.

Enacted under Article II, § 17(c) of the Maryland Constitution, May 28, 2023.

– 7 –