PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 110

Chapter 110

(Senate Bill 707)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Deputy State Fire Marshal – Probationary Status and Promotion

FOR the purpose of requiring a certain deputy State fire marshal to be on probation for a
certain period of time under certain circumstances; specifying the pay that a certain
deputy State fire marshal is entitled to on promotion; and generally relating to
deputy State fire marshals.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 2–403 and 2–405
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

2–403.

(a) Each police employee, including an individual who is appointed to the
Department for training before regular assignment as a police employee, shall remain in
probationary status for a period of 2 years after the date of appointment to the Department.

(b) Each civilian employee shall remain in probationary status for the period
required under Title 7, Subtitle 4 of the State Personnel and Pensions Article.

(C) EACH STATE MARSHAL,DEPUTY FIRE INCLUDING AN INDIVIDUAL WHO
OFFICE STATE FIRE MARSHALIS APPOINTED TO THE OF THE FOR TRAINING
STATE MARSHAL,BEFORE REGULAR ASSIGNMENT AS A DEPUTY FIRE SHALL REMAIN
2IN PROBATIONARY STATUS FOR A PERIOD OF YEARS AFTER THE DATE OF
OFFICE STATE FIRE MARSHAL.APPOINTMENT TO THE OF THE

2–405.

(a) (1) The Secretary shall develop a pay plan for police employees, State
Police communications operators, and State Police communications supervisors that
includes the ranks and the grades within ranks that the Secretary considers appropriate.

(2) The pay plan under this subsection:
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 110 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) is subject to approval by the Secretary of Budget and
Management; and

(ii) is effective on approval by the Governor only to the extent that
sufficient money is included in the State budget.

(b) Each police employee, State Police communications operator, and State Police
communications supervisor is entitled to receive the pay rate, including any increment
based on length of service, set forth in the pay plan established under subsection (a) of this
section.

(c) (1) Each police employee is entitled to the pay rate for the next highest step
within the police employee’s rank on:

(i) each July 1, if the police employee was a police employee on July
1, 1967; or

(ii) each anniversary of the date of employment, for all other police
employees.

(2) (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, on
STATEpromotion a police employee is entitled to the payOR A DEPUTY FIRE MARSHAL
STATEspecified for the new rank in the same step that the police employee OR DEPUTY
occupied before promotion.FIRE MARSHAL

STATE(ii) If the step that the police employee OR DEPUTY FIRE
occupied before promotion is higher than that held by a police employeeMARSHAL OR
STATE who is already in the rank and has equal or higher totalDEPUTY FIRE MARSHAL
STATEservice time, on promotion the police employee isOR DEPUTY FIRE MARSHAL
entitled only to the pay specified for the new rank in the next lower step than the police
STATEemployee occupied before promotion.OR DEPUTY FIRE MARSHAL

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 2 –