PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 226

Chapter 226

(Senate Bill 708)

AN ACT concerning

Public Health – Youth Camps, Development Organizations, and Programs
– Criminal History Records Checks

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Health to apply to the Criminal
Justice Information System Central Repository for criminal history records checks
for certain youth camp applicants; requiring that the Department issue a written
determination to a youth camp as to whether the results of a criminal history check
would be the basis for prohibiting the hiring of an applicant within a certain time
period; repealing the authority of youth development organizations and programs to
request from the Department a determination of whether the results of a criminal
history records check would prohibit the hiring of a job applicant; and generally
relating to youth camps, development organizations, and programs and criminal
history records checks.

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 14–403.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 14–407
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

14–403.1.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “APPLICANT” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS SEEKING TO
OWNER, OPERATOR, EMPLOYEE,BECOME A YOUTH CAMP OR VOLUNTEER WHO WILL
CAMPER.HAVE ACCESS TO A

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 226 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) “CENTRAL REPOSITORY” CRIMINAL JUSTICEMEANS THE
INFORMATION SYSTEM CENTRAL REPOSITORY DEPARTMENT PUBLICOF THE OF
SAFETY CORRECTIONAL SERVICES.AND

(B) THE DEPARTMENT CENTRAL REPOSITORYSHALL APPLY TO THE FOR
APPLICANT’S:AN

(1) STATE CHECK;CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS AND

(2) NATIONAL CHECK.CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS

(C) AS PART OF THE APPLICATION FOR A CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS
CHECK, DEPARTMENT CENTRAL REPOSITORY:THE SHALL SUBMIT TO THE

(1) A APPLICANT’SCOMPLETE SET OF THE LEGIBLE FINGERPRINTS
DIRECTOR CENTRAL REPOSITORYTAKEN IN A FORMAT APPROVED BY THE OF THE
DIRECTOR FEDERAL BUREAU INVESTIGATION;AND THE OF THE OF

(2) THE § 10–221(B)(7) CRIMINALFEE AUTHORIZED UNDER OF THE
PROCEDURE ARTICLE MARYLAND RECORDS;FOR ACCESS TO CRIMINAL HISTORY
AND

(3) THE FEDERALMANDATORY PROCESSING FEE REQUIRED BY THE
BUREAU INVESTIGATION CHECK.OF FOR A NATIONAL CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS

(D) IN §§ 10–201 10–229 CRIMINALACCORDANCE WITH THROUGH OF THE
PROCEDURE ARTICLE, CENTRAL REPOSITORYTHE SHALL FORWARD TO THE
DEPARTMENT APPLICANT’SAPPLICANT AND THE THE CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD
INFORMATION.

(E) INFORMATION CENTRAL REPOSITORYOBTAINED FROM THE UNDER
SECTION:THIS

(1) IS CONFIDENTIAL;

(2) MAY REDISSEMINATED;NOT BE AND

(3) MAY BE USED ONLY FOR THE PERSONNEL SCREENING
SUBTITLE.PROCEDURES AUTHORIZED BY THIS

(F) THE SUBJECT OF A CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS CHECK UNDER THIS
SECTION MAY CONTEST THE CONTENTS OF THE PRINTED STATEMENT ISSUED BY

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 226

CENTRAL REPOSITORY § 10–223 CRIMINALTHE AS PROVIDED IN OF THE
PROCEDURE ARTICLE.

(G) IF CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD INFORMATION IS REPORTED TO THE
CENTRAL REPOSITORY AFTER THE DATE OF THE INITIAL CRIMINAL HISTORY
CHECK, CENTRAL REPOSITORYRECORDS THE SHALL PROVIDE TO THE
DEPARTMENT REVISED CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD INFORMATION FOR THE
APPLICANT.

14–407.

[(a) In this section, “youth development organization or program” means an
minors.]organization or a program that provides activities for

[(b)] (A) The Department shall:

[the](1) Investigate complaints received regarding youth camp; andA

(2) Require appropriate training, including knowledge of outdoor camping,
for a camp inspector.

[(c)] (B) [or(1) Before a youth camp youth development organization or
program] makes a formal offer of employment to a job applicant, the operator of the youth
[or program]camp youth development organization or may request from the Department
[federal] STATEa determination as to whether the results of a criminalNATIONAL OR
history records check would be the basis for prohibiting the hiring of the applicant.

WITHIN 3(2) ~~On~~ receipt of a request from theBUSINESS DAYS AFTER
[or program]operator of a youth camp youth development organization or under paragraph
(1) of this subsection, the Department shall issue a written determination to the youth
[or program]camp youth development organization or as to whether the results of a
[federal] STATE criminal history records check would be the basis forNATIONAL OR
prohibiting the hiring of the applicant.

(3) A determination issued by the Department under paragraph (2) of this
[orsubsection is binding on the Department and the youth camp youth development
program]organization or unless the applicant:

(i) Has subsequently been convicted of a crime;

(ii) Has pending criminal charges; or

(iii) Had previously undisclosed criminal convictions.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 226 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) The Department may set a reasonable fee to cover the cost of a criminal
history records check required under this subsection.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 4 –