PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

Chapter 647

(Senate Bill 792)

AN ACT concerning

Estates and Trusts – Registered Domestic Partnerships

FOR the purpose of establishing requirements for the registration and termination of
domestic partnerships with the register of wills; repealing provisions on legitimacy
and illegitimacy of children and providing for the parentage of a child born to
registered domestic partners; requiring the register to recognize a relationship
established under the law of another jurisdiction if the law of the jurisdiction is
substantially similar to this Act and to establish, update, and maintain a certified
list of jurisdictions recognized as having substantially similar laws; providing that
the surviving partner of a registered domestic partnership qualifies for certain
benefits; prohibiting a surviving partner of a registered domestic partnership from
electing against a will under certain circumstances; altering provisions of law
relating to an intestate estate and the share of the surviving spouse or surviving
registered domestic partner; altering provisions of law relating to the distribution of
a decedent’s net estate, the appointing of a personal representative, and certain
inheritance tax to include a surviving registered domestic partner; and generally
relating to domestic partnerships.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Estates and Trusts
Section 1–101, 1–205, 1–206, 1–208, 3–102 through 3–104, 3–108, 3–201, and 5–104
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Estates and Trusts
Section 2–214
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Tax – General
Section 7–203(l)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Estates and Trusts

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 647 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

1–101.

[the law](a) In estates of decedents the following words have theTHIS ARTICLE
meanings indicated.

(b) “Administrative probate” has the meaning stated in § 5–301 of this article.

(c) “Book” includes a form of electronic recordation.

(d) “Child” has the meaning stated in §§ 1–205 through 1–208 of this title.

(e) “County” includes Baltimore City.

(f) “Court” has the meaning stated in § 2–101 of this article.

“DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP” § 6–101(A)(g) HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF
HEALTH – GENERAL ARTICLE.THE

(H) (1) “Environmental law” means a federal, State, or local law, rule,
regulation, or ordinance that relates to the protection of the environment.

(2) “Environmental law” includes Title 16 of the Environment Article.

[(h)] (I) “Heir” means a person entitled to property of an intestate decedent
pursuant to §§ 3–101 through 3–110 of this article.

[(i)] (J) (1) “Interested person” means:

(i) A person named as executor in a will;

(ii) A person serving as personal representative after judicial or
administrative probate;

(iii) A legatee in being, not fully paid, whether the legatee’s interest
is vested or contingent;

(iv) An heir even if the decedent dies testate, except that an heir of a
testate decedent ceases to be an “interested person” when the register has given notice
pursuant to § 2–210 or § 5–403(a) of this article; or

(v) An heir or legatee whose interest is contingent solely on whether
some other heir or legatee survives the decedent by a stated period if the other heir or
legatee has died within that period.

(2) “Interested person” includes:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

(i) A minor or other person under a disability; or

(ii) The judicially appointed guardian, committee, conservator or
trustee for such person, if any, and if none, then the parent or other person having assumed
responsibility for such person.

[(j)] (K) “Issue” has the meaning stated in § 1–209 of this title.

[(k)] (L) “Judicial probate” has the meaning stated in § 5–401 of this article.

[(l)] (M) “Legacy” means any property disposed of by will, including property
disposed of in a residuary clause and assets passing by the exercise by the decedent of a
testamentary power of appointment.

[(m)] (N) (1) “Legatee” means a person who under the terms of a will would
receive a legacy.

(2) “Legatee” includes a trustee.

(3) “Legatee” does not include a beneficiary of an interest under the trust.

[(n)] (O) “Letters” include letters testamentary and letters of administration.

[(o)] (P) “Maryland Rules” means the rules promulgated by the Court of Appeals
of Maryland under the authority of the Constitution and laws of Maryland.

[(p)] (Q) “Net estate” means the property of the decedent exclusive of the family
allowance and enforceable claims against the estate, except as used in §§ 3–102 and 3–203
of this article.

[(q)] (R) (1) “Personal representative” includes an executor or administrator.

(2) “Personal representative” does not include a special administrator.

[(r)] (S) (1) “Property” includes both real and personal property, and any
right or interest therein.

(2) “Property” refers to:

(i) All real and personal property of a decedent; and

(ii) Any right or interest therein which does not pass, at the time of
the decedent’s death, to another person by the terms of the instrument under which it is
held, or by operation of law.

[(s)] (T) “Register” has the meaning stated in § 2–201 of this article.
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 647 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(U) “REGISTERED PARTNER”DOMESTIC MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL IN A
PARTNERSHIP.REGISTERED DOMESTIC

(V) “REGISTERED PARTNERSHIP”DOMESTIC MEANS A DOMESTIC
§ 2–214PARTNERSHIP THAT IS REGISTERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
ARTICLE.

[(t)] (W) “Representation” has the meaning stated in § 1–210 of this title.

[(u)] (X) “Special administrator” means an administrator appointed as provided
in § 6–401 of this article.

(Y) “SURVIVING PARTNER”REGISTERED DOMESTIC MEANS THE
REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER OF A DECEDENT AT THE TIME OF THE
DECEDENT’S DEATH.

[(v)] (Z) “Trust company” means an institution that is authorized to exercise
trust or fiduciary powers and that:

(1) Is organized under the laws of this State as a State bank, trust
company, or savings bank;

(2) Is organized under the laws of the United States and:

(i) Has its principal office in this State;

(ii) 1. Has an office in this State that is not its principal office;
and

2. Meets the definition of a trust institution under 12 U.S.C.
§ 1841(c)(2)(D); or

(iii) 1. Has an office in this State that is not its principal office;
and

2. Accepts deposits at its office in this State; or

(3) Is organized under the laws of another state as a bank, trust company,
or savings bank and:

(i) 1. Has an office in this State that is not its principal office;

2. Meets the definition of a trust institution under 12 U.S.C.
§ 1841(c)(2)(D); and

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

3. Is a direct or indirect subsidiary of a bank holding
company that has a direct or indirect bank, trust company, or savings bank subsidiary that
has an office in this State at which deposits are accepted; or

(ii) 1. Has an office in this State that is not its principal office;
and

2. Accepts deposits at its office in this State.

[(w)] (AA) “Will” has the meaning stated in § 4–101 of this article.

1–205.

(a) A child includes:

[legitimate] [an illegitimate](1) A child, an adopted child, andNATURAL
child to the extent provided in §§ 1–206 through 1–208 of this subtitle; andA

(2) A child conceived from the genetic material of a person after the death
of the person if:

(i) The person consented in a written record to use of the person’s
genetic material for posthumous conception in accordance with the requirements of §
20–111 of the Health – General Article;

(ii) The person consented in a written record to be the parent of a
child posthumously conceived using the person’s genetic material;

(iii) The child is born within 2 years of the person’s death; and

(iv) With respect to any trust, the person was the creator of the trust
and the trust became irrevocable on or after October 1, 2012.

(b) A child does not include a stepchild, a foster child, or a grandchild or more
remote descendant.

1–206.

[(1)](a) A child born or conceived during a marriage OR REGISTERED
[legitimate]is presumed to be the child of both spousesDOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP OR
PARTNERS.REGISTERED DOMESTIC

[(2) Except as provided in § 1–207 of this subtitle, a child born at any time
after the child’s parents have participated in a marriage ceremony with each other, even if
parents.]the marriage is invalid, is presumed to be the legitimate child of both
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 647 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) (1) A child conceived by means of assisted reproduction during the
marriage of the child’s mother with theOR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP
[legitimate]consent of the mother’s spouse is theOR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER
child of both spouses for all purposes.

(2) Consent of the mother’s spouse OR REGISTERED DOMESTIC
is presumed.PARTNER

(3) A child conceived by means of assisted reproduction after the death of
the mother’s spouse and using the geneticOR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER
[legitimate]material of the mother’s spouse is theOR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER
child of both spouses if the child qualifies as aOR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERS
child of the mother’s spouse under § 1–205(a)(2)OR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER
of this subtitle.

1–208.

[parents] [have(a) A child born to who notOR CONCEIVED BY INDIVIDUALS
other]participated in a marriage ceremony with each ARE NOT MARRIED OR IN A
is the child of the child’s mother.REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP

[parents] [have(b) A child born to who notOR CONCEIVED BY INDIVIDUALS
other]participated in a marriage ceremony with each ARE NOT MARRIED OR IN A
[parent]is the child of the who didREGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP INDIVIDUAL
not give birth to the child if:

[parent](1) The has been judicially determined to be theINDIVIDUAL
[father]child’s in an action brought under Title 5, Subtitle 10 of the Family LawPARENT
[or]Article, and that determination has not been modified or set aside;

[parent](2) The and the child’s mother consented to theINDIVIDUAL
conception of the child by means of assisted reproduction with the shared express intent to
be the parents of the child, subject to the conditions under § 1–205(a)(2) of this subtitle if
[parent] INDIVIDUAL;the child is conceived after the death of the OR

(3) THE CHILD’S MOTHER IDENTIFIES THE INDIVIDUAL AS THE
AGREES.OTHER BIOLOGICAL PARENT OF THE CHILD AND THE INDIVIDUAL

[parents](c) There is a rebuttable presumption that a child born to OR
[havewho not participated in a marriage ceremony withCONCEIVED BY INDIVIDUALS
other]each is theARE NOT MARRIED OR IN A REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP
child of an individual who did not give birth to the child if the individual:

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

(1) Has acknowledged himself or herself, in writing, to be a parent of the
child;

(2) Has openly and notoriously recognized the child to be the individual’s
child; or

(3) Has subsequently married OR REGISTERED A DOMESTIC
the mother and has acknowledged himself or herself, orally or inPARTNERSHIP WITH
writing, to be a parent of the child.

2–214.

(A) (1) SUBJECT (2)TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, TWO INDIVIDUALS MAY REGISTER A DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP BY
FILING A DECLARATION OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP WITH THE REGISTER OF WILLS
DOMICILED.IN THE COUNTY IN WHICH THE DOMESTIC PARTNERS ARE

(2) A DECLARATION OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP FILED WITH THE
SHALL:REGISTER OF WILLS

(I) INCLUDE:

1. THE PARTNER;FULL NAME OF EACH DOMESTIC

2. THE PARTNER;HOME ADDRESS OF EACH DOMESTIC
AND

3. THE PARTNER;AGE OF EACH DOMESTIC

(II) BE PARTY,SIGNED DIRECTLY BY EACH OR BY ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL, PARTY’SAT THE EXPRESS DIRECTION OF THE PARTY AND IN THE
PRESENCE;

(III) BE SIGNED IN THE PHYSICAL PRESENCE OF A NOTARY
PUBLIC OR BEFORE A NOTARY PUBLIC THROUGH COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY IN
TITLE 18, SUBTITLE 2 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE;ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
AND

(IV) AFFIRM UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY THAT EACH
IS:DOMESTIC PARTNER

1. AT 18 OLD;LEAST YEARS

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 647 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

2. THE OTHER;SOLE DOMESTIC PARTNER OF THE

3. NOT MARRIED; AND

4. IN A COMMITTED RELATIONSHIP WITH THE OTHER
INDIVIDUAL.

(B) THE REGISTER OF WILLS MAY REFUSE TO REGISTER A DOMESTIC
PARTNERSHIP IF THE DECLARATION OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP DOES NOT MEET
(A)(2) SECTION.THE REQUIREMENTS OF SUBSECTION OF THIS

(C) THE $25REGISTER MAY CHARGE A FEE OF UP TO FOR THE FILING OF A
PARTNERSHIP.DECLARATION OF DOMESTIC

(D) (1) THE REGISTER SHALL MAINTAIN ADEQUATE RECORDS OF
PARTNERSHIP,DECLARATIONS OF DOMESTIC AMENDMENTS TO DECLARATIONS OF
PARTNERSHIP, STATEMENTS.DOMESTIC AND TERMINATION

(2) EXCEPT (3) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS A
DECLARATION OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP FILED WITH A REGISTER OF WILLS IS A
RECORD.PUBLIC

(3) THE REGISTER SHALL DENY INSPECTION OF THE PART OF A
DECLARATION OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP THAT CONTAINS THE HOME ADDRESS OF
PARTNER.EITHER DOMESTIC

(E) (1) (I) EXCEPT (2)AS PROVIDED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, A DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP MAY BE TERMINATED BY FILING A
REGISTER.DECLARATION OF TERMINATION WITH THE

(II) A SHALL:DECLARATION OF TERMINATION

1. BE PARTIES;SIGNED BY BOTH OR

2. IF THE DECLARATION OF TERMINATION IS NOT
PARTIES,SIGNED BY BOTH INCLUDE A STATEMENT THAT A COPY OF THE
PARTY.DECLARATION OF TERMINATION HAS BEEN SERVED ON THE NONSIGNING

(III) A DECLARATION OF TERMINATION FILED UNDER THIS
6 FILING.PARAGRAPH IS EFFECTIVE MONTHS AFTER THE DATE OF

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

(2) (I) IF A DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP HAS BEEN ABANDONED BY
PARTNERS,ONE OF THE DOMESTIC THE ABANDONED DOMESTIC PARTNER MAY FILE
6A DECLARATION OF TERMINATION NOT EARLIER THAN MONTHS AFTER THE
ABANDONMENT.

(II) A DECLARATION OF TERMINATION FILED UNDER THIS
SHALL:PARAGRAPH

1. INCLUDE A STATEMENT THAT THE FILING PARTY HAS
6NOT BEEN IN CONTACT WITH THE NONFILING PARTY FOR AT LEAST MONTHS
FILING;PRECEDING THE DATE OF AND

2. IF THE LOCATION OF THE NONFILING PARTY IS
KNOWN, INCLUDE A STATEMENT THAT A COPY OF THE DECLARATION OF
PARTY.TERMINATION HAS BEEN SERVED ON THE NONFILING

(III) A DECLARATION OF TERMINATION FILED UNDER THIS
IMMEDIATELY.PARAGRAPH IS EFFECTIVE

(F) (1) A REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP TERMINATES
ON:IMMEDIATELY

(I) CERTIFICATION OF MARRIAGE OF EITHER DOMESTIC
PARTNER; OR

(II) THE PARTNER.DEATH OF EITHER DOMESTIC

(2) THIS SUBSECTION MAY NOT BE INTERPRETED TO TERMINATE ANY
RIGHTS OR BENEFITS OTHERWISE ENJOYED BY OR OWED TO A SURVIVING
PARTNER.REGISTERED DOMESTIC

(G) (1) THE SURVIVING PARTNER OF A REGISTERED DOMESTIC
BENEFITS:PARTNERSHIP SHALL QUALIFY FOR THE FOLLOWING

(I) THE SHARE OF A SURVIVING SPOUSE OR SURVIVING
REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER OF AN INTESTATE DECEDENT IN ACCORDANCE
§ 3–102 ARTICLE;WITH OF THIS

(II) THE FAMILY ALLOWANCE FOR A SURVIVING SPOUSE OR
SURVIVING REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER OF AN INTESTATE DECEDENT IN
§ 3–201 ARTICLE;ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 647 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(III) PRIORITY OF APPOINTMENT AS THE PERSONAL
SPOUSE,REPRESENTATIVE FOR A SURVIVING SURVIVING REGISTERED DOMESTIC
PARTNER, §AND CHILDREN OF AN INTESTATE DECEDENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
5–104(3) ARTICLE;OF THIS AND

(IV) THE § 7–203(L)(3)INHERITANCE TAX EXEMPTION UNDER
TAX – GENERAL ARTICLE.OF THE

(2) THE SURVIVING DOMESTIC PARTNER OF A REGISTERED
DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP IS NOT ENTITLED TO ELECT TO TAKE AN ELECTIVE SHARE
§ 3–403 ARTICLE.OF THE ESTATE UNDER OF THIS

(H) (1) IF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION ESTABLISHING A
RELATIONSHIP OTHER THAN MARRIAGE ARE SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR TO THE
SECTION,REQUIREMENTS OF THIS THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED BY THE OTHER
JURISDICTION SHALL BE RECOGNIZED AS A REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP
STATE.IN THE

(2) (I) THE ESTABLISH, UPDATE,REGISTER SHALL AND MAINTAIN
A CERTIFIED LIST OF JURISDICTIONS WITH LAWS OF DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP THAT
SECTION.ARE SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS

(II) IF THE REGISTER HAS NOT CERTIFIED THAT THE LAWS OF
ANOTHER JURISDICTION ARE SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF
SECTION, RELATIONSHIP,THIS BUT THE LAWS OF THAT JURISDICTION ESTABLISH A
JURISDICTION,REGARDLESS OF THE TERM OR PHRASE USED BY THE THAT HAS THE
MARRIAGE,RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE RELATIONSHIP SHALL BE
RECOGNIZED BY THE REGISTER AS A REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP IN THE
STATE AND THE REGISTER SHALL INCLUDE THAT JURISDICTION IN THE CERTIFIED
(I) PARAGRAPH.LIST UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS

(3) THE REGISTER SHALL BROADLY CONSTRUE THE TERM
“SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR” TO MAXIMIZE THE RECOGNITION OF RELATIONSHIPS
FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS AS REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS IN THE
STATE.

3–102.

[The] SUBJECT (B) (C) SECTION,(a) TO SUBSECTIONS AND OF THIS THE
[asshare of a surviving spouse shall be providedOR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER
section]in this ESTATE.THE ENTIRE INTESTATE

(b) If there is a surviving minor child, the share shall be one–half.

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

(c) If there is no surviving minor child, but there is surviving issue WHO ARE
PARTNER, theNOT ISSUE OF THE SURVIVING SPOUSE OR REGISTERED DOMESTIC
[$40,000] $100,000share shall be the first plus one–half of the residue.

[(d) If there is no surviving issue but a surviving parent, and the surviving spouse
and the decedent had been married for less than 5 years, the share shall be the first $40,000
plus one–half of the residue.

(e) If there is no surviving issue but a surviving parent, and the surviving spouse
and the decedent had been married for at least 5 years, the share shall be the whole estate.

(f) If there is no surviving issue or parent, the share shall be the whole estate.

(g)] (D) For the purposes of this section, the net estate shall be calculated
without a deduction for the tax as defined in § 7–308 of the Tax – General Article.

3–103.

The net estate, exclusive of the share of the surviving spouse OR REGISTERED
PARTNER, or the entire net estate if there is no surviving spouseDOMESTIC OR
PARTNER, shall be divided equally among the surviving issue,REGISTERED DOMESTIC
by representation as defined in § 1–210 of this article.

3–104.

SPOUSE,(a) If there is no surviving issue, OR REGISTERED DOMESTIC
PARTNER, distribute[, section]the personal representative shall as prescribed in this THE
ESTATE, §§ 3–111 3–112 SUBTITLE, FOLLOWS:NET SUBJECT TO AND OF THIS AS

[(1) If there is a surviving spouse, the net estate exclusive of the share of
the surviving spouse; or

(2) If there is no surviving spouse, the entire net estate.

(b) Subject to §§ 3–111 and 3–112 of this subtitle, the net estate shall be
distributed:]

(1) To the surviving parents equally;

(2) If only one parent survives, to the survivor; or

(3) If neither parent survives, to the issue of the parents, by representation.

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 647 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(c)] (B) (1) If there is no surviving parent or issue of a parent, the net estate
shall be distributed:

[(i) One–half:

1. To the surviving paternal grandparents equally;

2. If only one paternal grandparent survives, to the survivor;
or

3. If neither paternal grandparent survives, to the issue of
the paternal grandparents, by representation; and

(ii) One–half:

1. To the surviving maternal grandparents equally;

2. If only one maternal grandparent survives, to the
survivor; or

3. If neither maternal grandparent survives, to the issue of
representation]the maternal grandparents, by

(I) ONE–HALF EQUALLY;TO EACH PAIR OF GRANDPARENTS

(II) IF SURVIVES,ONLY ONE GRANDPARENT OF A PAIR
ONE–HALF SURVIVOR;TO THE OR

(III) IF SURVIVES,NEITHER GRANDPARENT OF A PAIR
ONE–HALF GRANDPARENTS, REPRESENTATION.TO THE ISSUE OF THAT PAIR OF BY

(2) In the event that neither of one pair of grandparents and none of the
issue of either of that pair survives, the one–half share applicable shall be distributed to:

(i) The other pair of grandparents;

(ii) The survivor of the other pair of grandparents; or

(iii) The issue of either of the other pair of grandparents, in the same
manner as prescribed for their half share.

[(d) (1) If there is no surviving parent or issue of a parent, or surviving
grandparent or issue of a grandparent, the net estate shall be distributed one–quarter to:

(i) Each pair of great–grandparents equally;

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

(ii) All to the survivor; or

(iii) If neither survives, all to the issue of either or of both of that pair
of great–grandparents, by representation.

(2) In the event that neither member of a pair of great–grandparents nor
any issue of either of that pair survives, the quarter share applicable shall be distributed
equally among the remaining pairs of great–grandparents or the survivor of a pair or issue
of either of a pair of great–grandparents, in the same manner as prescribed for a quarter
share.]

[(e)] (C) (1) In this subsection, “stepchild” means the child of any spouse of
the decedent, if the spouse was not divorced from the decedent.

(2) If there is no surviving blood relative entitled to inherit under this
section, the net estate shall be divided into as many equal shares as there are:

(i) Stepchildren of the decedent who survive the decedent; and

(ii) Stepchildren of the decedent who did not survive the decedent
but of whom issue did survive the decedent.

(3) (i) Each stepchild of the decedent who did survive the decedent shall
receive one share.

(ii) The issue of each stepchild of the decedent who did not survive
the decedent but of whom issue did survive the decedent shall receive one share
apportioned by applying the pattern of representation set forth in § 1–210 of this article.

3–108.

[(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, property of an illegitimate
succession.]person passes in accordance with the usual rules of intestate

[(b)] [father] [father’s] PARENT’S [an illegitimate]The or the relations ofPARENT
[illegitimate] [fatherperson can inherit only if the person is treated as the child of theA
to]pursuant § 1–205(a)(2) or § 1–208 of this article.PARENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH

3–201.

[The] A(a) surviving spouse is entitledOR REGISTERED DOMESTIC PARTNER
to receive an allowance of $10,000 for personal use.

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 647 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) An allowance of $5,000 for the use of each unmarried child of the decedent
who has not attained the age of 18 years at the time of the death of the decedent shall be
paid by the personal representative as provided in § 13–501 of this article.

5–104.

In granting letters in administrative or judicial probate, or in appointing a successor
personal representative, or a special administrator as provided in Title 6, Subtitle 4 of this
article, the court and register shall observe the following order of priority, with any person
in any one of the following paragraphs considered as a class:

(1) The personal representatives named in a will admitted to probate;

(2) The personal representatives nominated in accordance with a power
conferred in a will admitted to probate;

spouse, PARTNER,(3) The surviving andREGISTERED DOMESTIC
children of an intestate decedent, or the surviving spouse of a testate decedent;

(4) The residuary legatees;

(5) The children of a testate decedent who are entitled to share in the
estate;

(6) The grandchildren of the decedent who are entitled to share in the
estate;

(7) Subject to §§ 3–111 and 3–112 of this article, the parents of the decedent
who are entitled to share in the estate;

(8) The brothers and sisters of the decedent who are entitled to share in
the estate;

(9) Other relations of the decedent who apply for administration;

(10) The largest creditor of the decedent who applies for administration;

(11) Any other person having a pecuniary interest in the proper
administration of the estate of the decedent who applies for administration; or

(12) Any other person.

Article – Tax – General

7–203.

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 647

(l) (1) (i) In this subsection the following words have the meanings
indicated.

(ii) “Domestic partner” means an individual with whom another
individual has established a domestic partnership.

(iii) “Domestic partnership” means a relationship between two
[within of]:individuals that is a domestic partnership the meaning

1. Article;§ 6–101(a) of the Health – GeneralUNDER OR

2. § 2–214REGISTERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ESTATES TRUSTS ARTICLE.AND

(2) If the domestic partner of a decedent provides the affidavit described in
§ 6–101(b)(1) of the Health – General Article or any two of the proofs of domestic
partnership listed under § 6–101(b)(2) of the Health – General Article, the inheritance tax
does not apply to the receipt of an interest in a joint primary residence that:

(i) at the time of death was held in joint tenancy by the decedent
and the domestic partner; and

(ii) passes from the decedent to or for the use of the domestic partner.

(3) FOR A DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIP REGISTERED IN ACCORDANCE
§ 2–214 ESTATES TRUSTS ARTICLE,WITH OF THE AND THE INHERITANCE TAX DOES
NOT APPLY TO THE RECEIPT OF PROPERTY THAT PASSES FROM THE DECEDENT TO
DECEDENT.OR FOR THE USE OF THE DOMESTIC PARTNER OF THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 15 –