PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 746

Chapter 746

(Senate Bill 840)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant Fund – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant Fund as a
special, nonlapsing fund to make grants to nonprofit organizations, including
faith–based organizations, to provide security enhancements to protect against hate
crimes; requiring the Executive Director of the Governor’s Office of Crime
Prevention, Youth, and Victim Services to administer the Fund; ~~requiring~~
authorizing, for fiscal year 2025 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Governor to
include in the annual budget bill a certain appropriation to the Fund; and generally
relating to the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Public Safety
Section 4–1601 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 16. Protecting Against Hate
Crimes Grant Fund”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)170. and 171.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)172.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 746 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SUBTITLE 16. PROTECTING AGAINST HATE CRIMES GRANT FUND.

4–1601.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” PROTECTING AGAINST HATETHIS MEANS THE
CRIMES GRANT FUND.

(B) THERE PROTECTING AGAINST HATE CRIMES GRANT FUND.IS A

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO MAKE GRANTS TO NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS, FAITH–BASED ORGANIZATIONS,INCLUDING TO PROVIDE
CRIMES.SECURITY ENHANCEMENTS TO PROTECT AGAINST HATE

(D) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIMEOF THE OF
PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICES SHALL:AND

(1) FUND;ADMINISTER THE

(2) ESTABLISH AND PUBLISH PROCEDURES FOR THE DISTRIBUTION
ORGANIZATIONS, FAITH–BASEDOF GRANTS TO NONPROFIT INCLUDING
ORGANIZATIONS;

(3) $1,000,000SET ASIDE A MINIMUM OF EACH YEAR FOR GRANTS TO
FAITH–BASED ~~INSTITUTIONS~~ ORGANIZATIONS TO INCREASE SECURITY MEASURES
FAITH–BASED CRIMES,AGAINST HATE WITH PRIORITY GIVEN TO APPLICANTS THAT
CAN DEMONSTRATE A HIGH PREVALENCE OF HATE CRIMES AGAINST MEMBERS OF
APPLICANT’S FAITH;AND INSTITUTIONS REPRESENTING THE AND

(4) GENERAL ASSEMBLY, §SUBMIT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,OF THE A REPORT ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF
SEPTEMBER 1 YEAR.FUNDING BEFORE EACH

(E) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(F) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) FUND;ANY INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 746

(3) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(G) THE FUND MAY BE USED ONLY TO MAKE GRANTS TO NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS, FAITH–BASED ORGANIZATIONS,INCLUDING TO PROVIDE
CRIMES.SECURITY ENHANCEMENTS TO PROTECT AGAINST HATE

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUND,INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE INCLUDING INTEREST
(F) SECTION,EARNINGS UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SHALL BE CREDITED TO THE
FUND.

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(J) MONEY FUNDEXPENDED FROM THE FOR GRANTS TO NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS, FAITH–BASED ORGANIZATIONS,INCLUDING TO PROVIDE
SECURITY ENHANCEMENTS TO PROTECT AGAINST HATE CRIMES IS SUPPLEMENTAL
TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF FUNDING THAT OTHERWISE
ORGANIZATIONS,WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR PROVIDING NONPROFIT
FAITH–BASED ORGANIZATIONS,INCLUDING WITH SECURITY ENHANCEMENTS TO
CRIMES.PROTECT AGAINST HATE

(K) FOR 2025 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR THE
GOVERNOR ~~SHALL~~ MAY INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION
$5,000,000 FUND.OF TO THE

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]170. the Cannabis Public Health Fund;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 746 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Fund;171. the Community Reinvestment and Repair AND

172. PROTECTING AGAINST HATE CRIMES GRANTTHE
FUND.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2023.

– 4 –