PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 596

Chapter 596

(Senate Bill 962)

AN ACT concerning

Anne Arundel County – Alcoholic Beverages Licenses – Residency Requirement

FOR the purpose of requiring a certain applicant for an alcoholic beverages license in Anne
Arundel County to be a resident of the State, rather than the county, when an
application for a license is filed; providing that a certain license is valid only for as
long as the resident applicant remains a resident of the State; and generally relating
to alcoholic beverages licenses in Anne Arundel County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 11–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 11–1401
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages
Section 11–1408
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages

11–102.

This title applies only in Anne Arundel County.

11–1401.

(a) The following sections of Title 4, Subtitle 1 (“Applications for Local Licenses”)
of Division I of this article apply in the county without exception or variation:

(1) § 4–102 (“Applications to be filed with local licensing board”);
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 596 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) § 4–106 (“Payment of notice expenses”);

(3) § 4–108 (“Application form required by Comptroller”);

(4) § 4–109 (“Required information on application — In general”);

(5) § 4–111 (“Payment of license fees”); and

(6) § 4–114 (“Fees for licenses issued for less than 1 year”).

(b) (1) Section 4–110 (“Required information on application – Petition of
support”) of Division I of this article does not apply in the county.

(2) Section 4–113 (“Refund of license fees”) of Division I of this article does
not apply in the county and is superseded by § 11–1407 of this subtitle.

(3) The following sections of Title 4, Subtitle 1 (“Applications for Local
[except for]Licenses”) of Division I of this article apply in the county racetrackDO NOT TO
licenses or beach and amusement park licenses:

(i) § 4–103 (“Application on behalf of partnership”);

(ii) § 4–104 (“Application on behalf of corporation or club”); and

(iii) § 4–105 (“Application on behalf of limited liability company”).

(1)(c) The following sections of Title 4, Subtitle 1 (“Applications for Local
Licenses”) of Division I of this article apply in the county EXCEPT FOR RACETRACK
LICENSES:LICENSE OR BEACH AND AMUSEMENT PARK

(I) § 4–103 (“APPLICATION PARTNERSHIP”),ON BEHALF OF
§ 11–1408 SUBTITLE;SUBJECT TO OF THIS

(II) § 4–104 (“APPLICATION ON BEHALF OF CORPORATION OR
CLUB”), § 11–1408 SUBTITLE;SUBJECT TO OF THIS AND

(III) § 4–105 (“APPLICATION ON BEHALF OF LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANY”), § 11–1408 SUBTITLE.SUBJECT TO OF THIS

[(1)] (2) THE TITLE 4, SUBTITLE 1FOLLOWING SECTIONS OF
(“APPLICATIONS LOCAL LICENSES”) DIVISION IFOR OF OF THIS ARTICLE APPLY IN
COUNTY:THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 596

(I) § 4–107 (“Criminal history records check”), subject to §§ 11–1403
and 11–1404 of this subtitle; and

[(2)] (II) § 4–112 (“Disposition of license fees”), subject to § 11–1406 of this
subtitle.

11–1408.

(A) AN STATEINDIVIDUAL WHO IS A RESIDENT OF THE AT THE TIME AN
APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE IS FILED UNDER THIS TITLE MEETS THE RESIDENCY
§§ 4–103, 4–104, 4–105 ARTICLE.REQUIREMENTS UNDER AND OF THIS

(B) THE LICENSE REMAINS VALID ONLY FOR AS LONG AS THE RESIDENT
STATE.APPLICANT REMAINS A RESIDENT OF THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 3 –