PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 497

Chapter 497

(Senate Bill 911)

AN ACT concerning

Natural Resources – Fishing Licenses and Stamps – Exemptions

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Department of Natural Resources to issue an annual
fishing license and stamp exemption to certain entities and organizations to provide
fishing clinics and instructional opportunities to certain individuals; altering certain
reporting requirements for certain entities and organizations that are issued certain
fishing license and stamp exemptions; and generally relating to exemptions to
requirements to obtain a fishing license or stamp.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 4–217
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

4–217.

(a) (1) The Department may issue a 1–day license exemption to a nonprofit
organization to take individuals with physical or mental disabilities fishing from shore in
the tidal or nontidal waters of the State.

(2) The primary caregiver or representative of the organization attending
to the disabled individuals is included in the license exemption under this subsection.

(3) Application for a license exemption for an organization attending to
disabled individuals shall state the location, time, and day of the event and the number of
individuals covered by the exemption.

(b) (1) The Department may issue an annual license exemption to a
[take]:governmental entity or a nonprofit organization to

(I) TAKE individuals with physical or mental disabilities who are
serving or have served in the armed forces of the United States fishing in the tidal or
State;nontidal waters of the OR

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 497 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) PROVIDE FISHING CLINICS AND INSTRUCTIONAL
TO:OPPORTUNITIES

1. INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE SERVING OR HAVE SERVED IN
UNITED STATES;THE ARMED FORCES OF THE

2. INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE PARTICIPATING IN A
EVENT;PHYSICAL OR MENTAL WELLNESS OUTDOOR

3. INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE PARTICIPATING IN A SPECIAL
EVENT;NEEDS OUTDOOR

4. INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE ACTING UNDER THE
§ 4–212AUTHORITY OF A SCIENTIFIC COLLECTION PERMIT ISSUED UNDER OF THIS
SUBTITLE; OR

5. RESIDENTS STATEOF THE WHO ARE UNDERSERVED
OPPORTUNITIES, DEPARTMENTWITH RESPECT TO FISHING AS DETERMINED BY THE
REGULATION.IN

(2) The primary caregiver or representative of the governmental entity or
[a disabled]a nonprofit organization attending to individual underOR INSTRUCTING AN
this subsection is included in the license exemption.

(3) An application for a license exemption for a governmental entity or a
[a disabled]nonprofit organization attending to individual underOR INSTRUCTING AN
this subsection shall be made on a form provided by the Department.

(4) A governmental entity or a nonprofit organization with an exemption
under this subsection shall submit a report to the Department by January 1 of the year
[states:following the exemption period that

(i) The locations fished under the exemption;

(ii) The dates the exemption was used; and

exemption](iii) The number of individuals who were covered by the
PROVIDES CERTAIN EVENT AND PARTICIPANT INFORMATION AS REQUIRED BY THE
DEPARTMENT.

(c) The primary caregiver or representative of the governmental entity or
nonprofit organization exempted under subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall have in
possession the letter of exemption from the Director of the Fisheries Service while the
organization is engaged in fishing activity.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 497

(d) An individual covered under a license exemption under subsection (a) or (b) of
this section may:

(1) Engage in angling on the nontidal waters of the State without holding
an angler’s license under § 4–604 of this title;

(2) Engage in angling for trout on the nontidal waters of the State without
holding a trout stamp under § 4–614 of this title; and

(3) Fish for finfish in the Chesapeake Bay and its tributaries or in the State
waters of the Atlantic Ocean and the Atlantic coastal bays and their tributaries without
holding a Chesapeake Bay and coastal sport fishing license under § 4–745 of this title.

(e) An angler’s license is not required of the following:

(1) A patient who is under treatment by a State–approved mental health
facility and an individual who attends or resides in a State–approved facility for
developmentally disabled individuals; or

(2) A caregiver, family member, or designee of a mental health care facility
or private group home of a patient who is under treatment by a State–approved mental
health facility, if:

(i) The administrator of the mental health care facility, or treating
physician or psychologist provides the Department with a letter stating that the caregiver
or family member is the primary caretaker of the patient; or

(ii) The individual accompanying the patient carries a copy of the
letter described under item (i) of this item, or a professional license or certificate of a health
care professional involved in the care of the patient.

(F) THE DEPARTMENT MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS
SECTION.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2023.

Approved by the Governor, May 8, 2023.

– 3 –