PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

Chapter 113

(Senate Bill 959)

AN ACT concerning

Higher Education – Maryland 529 Program – Reform

FOR the purpose of abolishing and repealing the Maryland 529 Board; specifying that the
State Treasurer is the successor to the Maryland 529 Board; transferring to the
Office of the State Treasurer the responsibility for administering the Maryland 529
Program, including the Maryland Prepaid College Trust, the Maryland College
Investment Plan, the Maryland Broker–Dealer College Investment Plan, and the
Maryland ABLE Program; authorizing the State Treasurer to take certain actions in
administering the Maryland 529 Program; requiring the State Treasurer to take
certain actions in administering the Maryland 529 Program; prohibiting the State
Treasurer from taking certain actions in administering the Maryland Prepaid
College Trust; ~~establishing~~ ~~the~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~529~~ ~~Prepaid~~ ~~College~~
~~Trust~~ ~~Program;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~to~~ ~~identify~~ ~~certain~~ ~~policies,~~ ~~procedures,~~ ~~and~~
~~practices~~ ~~and~~ ~~to~~ ~~develop~~ ~~recommendations~~ ~~relating~~ ~~to~~ ~~administering~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~529~~ ~~Program;~~ establishing a process for making certain claims against the Maryland
Prepaid College Trust; providing for the transfer of certain services, appropriations,
funding, grants, property, records, fixtures, credits, assets, liabilities, obligations,
rights, and privileges to the Office of the State Treasurer; providing that employees
transferred to the Office of the State Treasurer as a result of this Act shall be
transferred without diminution of certain rights, benefits, or employment or
retirement status; providing for the continuity of certain transactions affected by or
flowing from this Act; providing for the continuity of certain laws, rules and
regulations, standards and guidelines, policies, orders, and other directives, permits
and license applications, forms, plans, memberships, contracts, agreements,
property, investigations, and administrative and judicial responsibilities; providing
for the appropriate transitional provisions relating to the continuity of certain boards
and other units; and generally relating to Maryland 529 Program reform.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 18–1901, 18–1902.1, 18–1903 through 18–1905, 18–1905.1, 18–1906,
18–1906.1, 18–1907 through 18–1911, 18–1914, 18–1916, 18–19A–01 through
18–19A–03, 18–19A–04.1, 18–19A–05, 18–19A–05.1, 18–19A–07, 18–19B–01
through 18–19B–06, 18–19B–08, 18–19C–01 through 18–19C–03, 18–19C–05,
18–19C–06, 18–19C–08, and 18–19C–09
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Section 18–1902, 18–1912, 18–1913, 18–1915, 18–19A–04, 18–19A–06,
18–19A–06.1, 18–19B–07, 18–19C–04, 18–19C–07, and 18–19C–10
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 18–1917
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 11–203(f)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~without~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Government~~
~~Section~~ ~~9–803(a)(10)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(11)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2022~~ ~~Supplement)~~

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Government~~
~~Section~~ ~~9–803(a)(11)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2022~~ ~~Supplement)~~

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section ~~9–803(a)(11)~~ 9–803(a)(10) and (11)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Government
Section 9–803(a)(11)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2022 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

18–1901.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “ABLE account holder” means an individual who has established an account
described under § 529A(e) of the Internal Revenue Code and is the designated beneficiary
of the account.

(c) “Account holder” means an individual who:

(1) Makes or undertakes the obligation to make advance payments of
qualified higher education expenses as provided under a prepaid contract; and

(2) Except as provided in § 18–1909(b) of this subtitle, is a resident of
Maryland or of the District of Columbia at the time that the account holder enters into a
prepaid contract.

[“Board”(d) means the Maryland 529 Board.

(e)] “Broker–Dealer Plan” means the Maryland Broker–Dealer College
Investment Plan established under Subtitle 19B of this title.

[(f)] (E) “Current prepaid contract obligations” means the scheduled payments
due for the next fiscal year under existing prepaid contracts.

[(g)] (F) “Eligible institution of higher education” means an institution of higher
education that:

(1) Offers an associate, bachelor, or graduate degree program; and

(2) Is eligible to participate in federal financial aid programs.

[(h)] (G) “Market value of program assets” means the amount of cash and cash
equivalents held by the Trust plus the fair market value of other assets of the Trust.

[(i)] (H) “Maryland ABLE Program” means the Maryland Achieving a Better
Life Experience Program established under Subtitle 19C of this title.

[(j)] (I) “Plan” means the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College
Investment Plan established under Subtitle 19A of this title.

[(k)] (J) [Board] STATE“Prepaid contract” means a contract between the
TREASURER and an account holder under the provisions of this subtitle for the advance
payment of qualified higher education expenses by the account holder for a qualified
beneficiary to attend an eligible institution of higher education, if the qualified beneficiary
is admitted to the institution.
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(l)] (K) “Program” means Maryland 529.

[(m)] (L) “Qualified beneficiary” means an individual who:

(1) Is eligible to apply advance payments of qualified higher education
expenses to undergraduate or graduate qualified higher education expenses at an eligible
institution of higher education under the provisions of this subtitle; and

(2) Except as provided in § 18–1909(b) of this subtitle, is a resident of the
State or of the District of Columbia at the time that the account holder enters into a prepaid
contract.

[(n)] (M) “Qualified higher education expenses” has the meaning stated in § 529
of the Internal Revenue Code.

[(o)] (N) “Qualified state tuition program” has the meaning stated in § 529 of the
Internal Revenue Code.

[(p)] (O) “Trust” means the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid
College Trust established under this subtitle.

[(q)] (P) (1) “Tuition” means the actual tuition and mandatory fees assessed
to all students by an eligible institution of higher education as a condition of enrollment at
the institution.

(2) “Tuition” does not include any fee that is assessed by the institution for
a particular course taken, year of enrollment, academic status, course of study, residency
status, or any other distinguishing factor used by the institution to determine a specific fee.

18–1902.

It is the intent of the General Assembly to enhance the accessibility and affordability
of higher education for all citizens of the State and for all citizens of the District of Columbia
by establishing a method to provide for the prepayment of tuition at eligible institutions of
higher education.

18–1902.1.

(a) There is a Program entitled Maryland 529.

[Board](b) The purpose of the Program is to provide for the administration by the
STATE TREASURER of the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College
Trust, the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College Investment Plan, the Maryland
Broker–Dealer College Investment Plan, and the Maryland ABLE Program.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

18–1903.

(a) There is a Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust.

(b) The purpose of the Trust is to provide:

(1) A means for payment of the cost of tuition in advance of enrollment at
an eligible institution of higher education; and

(2) An assurance to a beneficiary who enrolls at an eligible institution of
[Board] STATE TREASURERhigher education that the shall make every effort to invest
the advance payments so that the prepaid contract will cover the average in–State tuition
costs at public institutions of higher education in the State at the time that the benefits are
exercised.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(c) The shall administer the Trust in compliance
with Internal Revenue Service standards for qualified ~~State~~ tuition programs.STATE

(d) The funds of the Trust consist of:

(1) Payments received from prepaid contracts made under the provisions
of this subtitle;

(2) Bequests, endowments, or funds from any other available private
source;

(3) Interest and income earned from the investments of the Trust; and

(4) Federal, State, or local funds, or funds from any other available public
source.

(e) Money remaining in the Trust at the end of the fiscal year shall remain in the
Trust and may not revert to the General Fund of the State.

(f) Money of the Trust may not be considered money of the State and may not be
deposited into the Treasury.

(g) Money of the Trust may not be considered money of the Maryland Senator
Edward J. Kasemeyer College Investment Plan and may not be commingled with the Plan.

(h) Money of the Trust may not be considered money of or be commingled with
the Maryland Broker–Dealer College Investment Plan.

(i) Money of the Trust may not be considered money of or be commingled with
the Maryland ABLE Program.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(j) (1) The debts, contracts, and obligations of the Trust are not the contracts,
debts, or obligations of the State and neither the faith and credit nor taxing power of the
State is pledged directly or indirectly or contingently, morally or otherwise, to the payment
of the debts, contracts, and obligations.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The cannot directly or indirectly or
contingently obligate, morally or otherwise, the State to levy or pledge any form of taxation
whatsoever for the debts and obligations of the Trust or to make any appropriation for the
payment of the debts and obligations of the Trust.

(k) Neither the State nor any eligible institution of higher education shall be
liable for any losses or shortage of funds in the event that the Maryland Senator Edward
J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust is insufficient to meet the tuition requirements of an
institution attended by the qualified beneficiary.

18–1904.

[(a) There is a Maryland 529 Board.

(b)] [Board] STATE TREASURERThe shall administer:

(1) The Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust
established under this subtitle;

(2) The Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College Investment Plan
established under Subtitle 19A of this title;

(3) The Maryland Broker–Dealer College Investment Plan established
under Subtitle 19B of this title; and

(4) The Maryland ABLE Program established under Subtitle 19C of this
title.

[(c) The Board consists of the following members:

(1) The Secretary of the Maryland Higher Education Commission;

(2) The State Superintendent of Schools;

(3) The State Treasurer;

(4) The State Comptroller;

(5) The Chancellor of the University System of Maryland;

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(6) The Secretary of Disabilities; and

(7) Five members of the public who shall be appointed by the Governor and
shall have significant experience in finance, accounting, investment management, or other
areas that can be of assistance to the Board.

(d) A member of the Board designated under subsection (c)(1) through (6) of this
section may designate an employee from the member’s staff to represent the member of the
Board, with the full voting rights, powers, and duties of the member.

(e) Before taking office, each appointee to the Board shall take the oath required
by Article I, § 9 of the Maryland Constitution.

(f) (1) Except for the terms of the initial members of the Board, the term of a
public member of the Board is 4 years.

(2) The terms of the public members of the Board are staggered as required
by the terms of the members of the Board on October 1, 1998.

(3) At the end of a term, a public member continues to serve until a
successor is appointed and qualifies.

(4) A public member who is appointed after a term has begun serves only
for the remainder of the term and until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

(5) A public member is eligible for reappointment.

misconduct.](g) The Governor may remove a public member for incompetence or

18–1905.

[The(a) Board, from among the members of the Board, shall elect a chairman
and may elect additional officers that the Board considers necessary.

(b) The Board shall determine the times and places of meetings.

(c) A member of the Board:

(1) May not receive compensation;

(2) Is entitled to reimbursement for expenses under the Standard State
Travel Regulations; and

(3) Shall file a public disclosure of financial interests as required under the
Maryland Public Ethics Law.

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(d)] [Board] STATE TREASURER:(1) The

(i) Shall appoint a DEPUTY TREASURER TO ADMINISTER THE
Program ~~executive~~ ~~director~~ ~~who~~ ~~is~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~executive~~ ~~service~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Personnel~~
~~Management~~ ~~System;~~ and

PROGRAM(ii) May employ additional staff in accordance with the
budget.

(2) (i) Except for employees described in subparagraph (ii) or (iii) of this
paragraph, the employees shall be skilled service employees subject to the provisions of the
State Personnel and Pensions Article that govern skilled service employees.

(ii) An employee is in the professional service and subject to the
provisions of the State Personnel and Pensions Article that govern professional service
employees if the position:

1. Requires knowledge of an advanced type in a field of
science or learning customarily acquired by a course of specialized intellectual instruction
and study; and

2. Normally requires a professional license, an advanced
degree, or both.

(iii) An employee is in the management service and subject to the
provisions of the State Personnel and Pensions Article that govern management service
employees if the position:

1. Primarily involves direct responsibility for the oversight
and management of personnel and financial resources;

2. Requires the exercise of discretion and independent
judgment; and

3. Is not in the executive service.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(3) The may retain the services of
consultants, administrators, and other personnel, as necessary, to administer the Trust,
the Plan, the Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland ABLE Program.

Program[, Board,] [its] [is](4) The budget for the the and staff RETAINED
STATE TREASURER PROGRAM subject to review byBY THE TO ADMINISTER THE ARE
the General Assembly for information purposes only.

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

[(e)] (B) [Board] STATE TREASURERThe may adopt any regulations that the
[Board] STATE TREASURER considers necessary to carry out the provisions of this subtitle
or Subtitle 19A, Subtitle 19B, or Subtitle 19C of this title.

[(f)] (C) [addition] PROGRAM, [Board] STATEIn theADMINISTERING THE
TREASURER may:

[Adopt seal] ~~ADMINISTER~~ ~~OATHS,~~ ~~TESTIMONY,~~(1) an official ~~TAKE~~ ~~AND~~
~~BOOKS,~~ ~~RECORDS,~~ ~~DOCUMENTS;~~~~SUBPOENA~~ ~~WITNESSES~~ ~~AND~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OTHER~~

~~(2)~~ ~~Sue~~ ~~and~~ ~~be~~ ~~sued~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~CAUSES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ACTION~~ ~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROGRAM;~~~~ADMINISTRATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(3)~~ Execute contracts and other necessary instruments;

(2)~~(4)~~ Hold, buy, and sell instruments, obligations, securities, and other
investments consistent with its comprehensive investment plan;

(3)~~(5)~~ Enter into agreements with eligible institutions of higher
education and other public or private entities for the promotion, administration, or
marketing of the Program, the Trust, the Plan, the Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland
ABLE Program;

(4)~~(6)~~ Invest funds not required for immediate disbursement;

(5)~~(7)~~ Solicit and accept gifts, grants, loans, or other aid from any
source or participate in any government program for purposes consistent with this subtitle
and Subtitles 19A, 19B, and 19C of this title;

(6)~~(8)~~ Subject to the review of the General Assembly, impose, collect,
and distribute across Maryland 529 programs reasonable administrative fees for any
transactions under the Trust, the Plan, the Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland ABLE
Program or involving prepaid contracts or transactions affecting the Program, the Trust,
the Plan, the Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland ABLE Program;

(7)~~(9)~~ Procure insurance against any loss of assets of the Program, the
Trust, the Plan, the Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland ABLE Program;

(8)~~(10)~~ Endorse insurance coverage written exclusively for the purpose
of protecting:

(i) A prepaid contract under the Trust and the account holder and
the qualified beneficiary of the contract;

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) An investment account under the Plan, or the Broker–Dealer
Plan, and the account holder and qualified designated beneficiary of the investment
account; or

(iii) An ABLE account under the Maryland ABLE Program and the
ABLE account holder;

(9)~~(11)~~ Designate terms under which money may be withdrawn from the
Program, the Trust, the Plan, the Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland ABLE Program;

(10)~~(12)~~ Establish additional procedural and substantive requirements
for participation in and the administration or marketing of the Program, the Trust, the
Plan, the Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland ABLE Program;

(11) [Board’s] ~~STATE~~ ~~TREASURER’S~~~~(13)~~ Appear ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~own~~ ~~behalf~~
[other]before boards, commissions, or other governmental agencies; and

(12) [Board] STATE TREASURER~~(14)~~ Take any other action that the
considers appropriate to implement and administer the Program, the Trust, the Plan, the
Broker–Dealer Plan, or the Maryland ABLE Program.

(D) THE STATE TREASURER MAY:

(1) DELEGATE, PARTLY,WHOLLY OR THE EXERCISE OF FIDUCIARY
TRUST;DUTIES RELATED TO THE AND

(2) CONTRACT FOR SUPPORT SERVICES NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT
STATE TREASURER’S TRUST.THE FIDUCIARY DUTIES RELATED TO THE

18–1905.1.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) (1) The shall ~~develop~~ ~~and~~ implement a
marketing plan to increase participation in Maryland 529.

(2) (i) The marketing plan shall identify methods to increase general
participation in Maryland 529.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(ii) The shall coordinate with the
Board of Trustees of the Maryland Teachers and State Employees Supplemental
Retirement Plans and local school systems, respectively, to identify methods to increase
participation in Maryland 529 among:

1. State employees that participate in other State tax
savings programs; and

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

2. Families of students in local school systems with lower
rates of participation in Maryland 529 than the State population.

2025,(b) On or before December 1, ~~2016~~ and every 3 years thereafter, the
[Board] STATE TREASURER shall submit the marketing plan required under subsection
(a) of this section to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government
[Education,Article, the Senate Budget and Taxation Committee, the Senate Health, and
Affairs] EDUCATION, ENERGY,Environmental Committee ON AND THE
ENVIRONMENT, the House Committee on Ways and Means, and the House Appropriations
Committee.

18–1906.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) The shall adopt a comprehensive investment
plan for the administration of the Trust.

[Board] STATE(b) The plan shall specify the investment policies used by the
TREASURER in the administration of the Trust.

(c) Assets of the Trust shall be invested in accordance with the comprehensive
investment plan.

(d) The comprehensive investment plan must indicate the percentage of assets
that shall be held in each class of investment, the amount of funds held in any cash pool,
the amount of funds held in fixed assets investments, the amount of funds held in equity
investments, and the percentage and dollar value of assets placed with outside managers.

(e) (1) Notwithstanding any law restricting the deposit or investment of State
[Board] STATE TREASURERmoney, the may place assets of the Trust in savings accounts
or may use the assets to purchase fixed or variable life insurance or annuity contracts,
securities, evidence of indebtedness, or other investment products pursuant to the
comprehensive investment plan.

(2) Any insurance, annuity contracts, savings, or other investment
[Board] STATE TREASURERproducts procured by the shall be underwritten and offered
in compliance with applicable federal and State laws.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(f) The shall make every effort to invest the assets
of the Trust in a manner that earns, at a minimum, sufficient earnings to generate the
difference between the prepaid amount under prepaid contracts and the average in–State
tuition costs at public institutions of higher education in the State at the time that the
benefits are exercised.

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(g) The comprehensive investment plan shall provide for the Trust to be
[Board] STATEadministered in an actuarially sound manner to assure that the
TREASURER may defray obligations of the Trust.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(h) The shall review the comprehensive investment
plan at least annually to assure that the Trust remains actuarially sound.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(i) The may contract with an investment advisory
or management company for the investment and management of the Trust as long as the
Trust is administered in accordance with the comprehensive investment plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER:(j) The

(1) Shall preserve, invest, and expend the assets of the Trust solely for the
purposes of this subtitle; and

(2) May not loan, transfer, or use the assets for any other purpose of the
State.

(k) The Trust is not subject to § 7–302 of the State Finance and Procurement
Article.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(l) Unless the provides otherwise by regulation,
[Board] STATE TREASURERthe shall use the proceeds in the Trust in the following order:

(1) To pay eligible institutions of higher education in accordance with the
[Board’s] STATE TREASURER’S obligations under prepaid contracts;

(2) To refund money on the termination of prepaid contracts; ~~and~~

[Board] STATE TREASURER(3) To pay the operating expenses of the IN
PROGRAM;ADMINISTERING THE AND

(4) TO MAKE PAYMENTS TO RESOLVE CLAIMS BROUGHT AGAINST THE
TRUST § 18–1917 SUBTITLE.IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

[Board](m) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, if the
STATE TREASURER determines after an annual review that the market value of Trust
assets exceeds the amount necessary to satisfy all scheduled payments currently due or
[Board] STATEscheduled to become due under all prepaid contracts by 30% or more, the
TREASURER may provide for a rebate from the excess to account holders of existing
[Board] STATE TREASURER.prepaid contracts in an amount to be determined by the

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The may not rebate any amount to
account holders if, within the 5 years immediately preceding the proposed rebate:

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

[Board] STATE TREASURER(i) The has requested an
appropriation under § 18–1906.1 of this subtitle; or

(ii) The Trust has failed to repay to the State any appropriation
under § 18–1906.1 of this subtitle.

18–1906.1.

(a) If the current prepaid contract obligations of the Trust exceed the market
[Board] STATE TREASURER,value of Trust assets, at the request of the the Governor
shall include in the annual budget bill submitted to the General Assembly an appropriation
in the amount determined under subsection (b) of this section.

(b) The appropriation to be included in the budget bill under subsection (a) of this
section shall equal the difference between the current prepaid contract obligations and the
market value of Trust assets.

(c) For purposes of this section, the current prepaid contract obligations and the
market value of Trust assets:

(1) Shall be determined as of June 30 of the calendar year that ended before
the beginning of the fiscal year for which the appropriation is requested; and

(2) Shall be verified by the report of the independent outside auditor
required under § 18–1916 of this subtitle.

(d) (1) The amount appropriated under this section shall be deposited into the
Trust.

(2) All amounts paid into the Trust under this section shall constitute and
be accounted for as advances to the Trust.

(3) Subject to the rights of the Trust’s contract holders, amounts
appropriated under this section shall be repaid to the State without interest in equal
amounts in each of the next 2 fiscal years succeeding the one for which the appropriation
was made.

(4) If the appropriation in the State budget as enacted by the General
[Board]Assembly is less than the amount specified under subsection (b) of this section, the
STATE TREASURER may adjust the terms of subsequent or current prepaid contracts to
ensure continued actuarial soundness of the Trust.

18–1907.

(a) In this section, “fiduciary” means:

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[A Board] THE STATE TREASURER;(1) member of the ~~or~~

(2) An employee of the Program or the Trust who exercises any
discretionary authority or control over:

(i) The management or administration of the Trust; or

Trust;(ii) The management or disposition of the assets of the OR

(3) AN TREASURERINDIVIDUAL TO WHOM THE HAS DELEGATED
§ 18–1905 SUBTITLE.FIDUCIARY DUTIES IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

(b) A fiduciary shall discharge the fiduciary’s duties with respect to the Trust:

(1) Solely in the interest of the participants;

(2) For the exclusive purposes of providing benefits to the participants and
providing reasonable expenses of administering the Trust;

(3) With the care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the circumstances
then prevailing, that a prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such
matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character with like aims;

(4) By diversifying the investments of the Trust so as to minimize the risk
of large losses, unless under the circumstances it is clearly prudent not to do so;

(5) In accordance with the laws governing the Trust; and

(6) In accordance with the documents and instruments governing the Trust
to the extent that the documents and instruments are consistent with this subtitle.

(c) In exercising authority, control, or discretion with respect to the Trust, a
fiduciary may not:

(1) Use the assets of the Trust for the fiduciary’s own interest or account;

(2) Act in a transaction involving the Trust on behalf of a person, or
represent a person, if the interests of the person are adverse to the interests of the Trust or
the interests of participants;

(3) Receive any consideration for the fiduciary’s own account from a person
dealing with the Trust in connection with a transaction involving the assets of the Trust;
or

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(4) Become an endorser or surety or, in any manner, an obligor, for money
[Board] STATE TREASURER.lent to or borrowed from the

18–1908.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) The shall purchase a bond for each fiduciary in
accordance with Title 9, Subtitle 17 of the State Government Article.

(b) Unless a fiduciary is bonded, the fiduciary may not exercise custody or control
of any assets of the Trust.

(c) A fiduciary may not allow another fiduciary to act in violation of this section.

18–1909.

(1) [The shall] ON JUNE 1, 2023, STATE(a) Board OR AFTER THE
TREASURER establishMAY NOT ANY NEW PREPAID CONTRACTS OR EXTEND OR
prepaid contracts under the Trust ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~advance~~UPGRADE ANY EXISTING
~~payment~~ ~~of~~ ~~tuition~~ ~~at:~~

~~[(1)]~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~A~~ ~~community~~ ~~college;~~

~~[(2)]~~ ~~(II)~~ ~~A~~ ~~4–year~~ ~~college;~~

~~[(3)]~~ ~~(III)~~ ~~A~~ ~~university;~~ ~~or~~

~~[(4)]~~ ~~(IV)~~ ~~Any~~ ~~combination~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~community~~ ~~college,~~ ~~college,~~ ~~or~~ ~~university.~~

(2) ON JUNE 1, 2023,OR AFTER AN ACCOUNT HOLDER MAY NOT
ENTER INTO ANY NEW PREPAID CONTRACTS OR EXTEND OR UPGRADE ANY EXISTING
TRUSTPREPAID CONTRACTS UNDER THE ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ADVANCE~~ ~~PAYMENT~~
~~AT:~~~~OF~~ ~~TUITION~~

~~(I)~~ ~~A~~ ~~COLLEGE;~~~~COMMUNITY~~

~~(II)~~ ~~A~~ ~~4–YEAR~~ ~~COLLEGE;~~

~~(III)~~ ~~A~~ ~~UNIVERSITY;~~ ~~OR~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~COLLEGE,~~ ~~COLLEGE,~~~~COMBINATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~
~~UNIVERSITY.~~~~OR~~

(b) (1) For the purpose of entering into a prepaid contract, either the account
holder or the qualified beneficiary must be a resident of Maryland or of the District of
Columbia at the time that the account holder enters into the prepaid contract.

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) For the purposes of determining residency for the purchase of a prepaid
contract:

(i) For residency in Maryland, “resident” has the meaning stated in
§ 10–101 of the Tax – General Article; and

(ii) For residency in the District of Columbia, “resident” has the
meaning stated in § 47–1801.04 of the District of Columbia Code Annotated.

(c) The cost of a prepaid contract shall be based on:

(1) The average current in–State tuition costs at the time the prepaid
contract is purchased at public institutions of higher education in the State;

(2) The number of years expected to elapse between the purchase of a
prepaid contract and the use of the benefits of the prepaid contract; and

(3) The projected tuition costs at the time that the benefits will be
exercised.

(d) Each prepaid contract made under the provisions of this subtitle shall include
the following provisions:

(1) The amount of each payment and the number of payments required
from an account holder;

(2) The terms and conditions under which account holders shall remit
payments, including the dates of the payments;

(3) Provisions for late payment charges and defaults;

(4) Penalties for early withdrawal from the Trust;

(5) The amount and terms of any administrative fees that must be paid by
the account holder or the beneficiary;

(6) The name and date of birth of the qualified beneficiary on whose behalf
the contract is made;

(7) Terms and conditions for a substitution for the qualified beneficiary
originally named;

(8) Terms and conditions for the termination of the prepaid contract;

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(9) The time period during which the qualified beneficiary may claim
benefits from the Trust;

(10) The maximum number of undergraduate semester hours that are
prepaid under the prepaid contract, based on in–State tuition at a public institution of
higher education in the State;

(11) All other rights and obligations of the account holder and the Trust; and

[Board] STATE TREASURER(12) Any other terms and conditions that the
considers necessary or appropriate.

SUBJECT (A) SECTION, [Board] STATE(e) ~~The~~ TO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
TREASURER shall allow the conversion of a prepaid contract from one tuition plan or
payment option to a different tuition plan or payment option.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(f) The shall allow excess prepaid contract benefits
due to receipt of a scholarship, tuition remission, or early graduation from college to be used
toward the payment of other qualified higher education expenses, as specified by the
[Board] STATE TREASURER, at an eligible institution of higher education.

(1) ON JUNE 1, 2023, STATE TREASURER(g) OR AFTER THE MAY ~~NOT~~
~~STATE~~ONLY ALLOW THE TRANSFER OF FUNDS FROM ANY OTHER QUALIFIED STATE
TRUST, LAW,TUITION PROGRAM TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH FEDERAL FOR THE
PURPOSE OF CONTRIBUTING FUNDS TOWARDS AN EXISTING CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATION.

(2) ~~(I)~~ [The Board] ~~ON~~ ~~DECEMBER~~ ~~31,~~ ~~2024,~~ THE~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~
STATE TREASURER shall allow the transfer of funds from the Trust to any other qualified
[or~~State~~ tuition program from any other qualified State tuition program to theSTATE
Trust], in accordance with federal law.

~~(II)~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(III)~~ ~~PARAGRAPH,~~~~TO~~ ~~SUBPARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~STATE~~ ~~TREASURER~~~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~GRANT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INTEREST~~ ~~PAYMENT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACCOUNT~~
~~WHO,~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~PARAGRAPH,~~~~HOLDER~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~SUBPARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~TRUST~~ ~~PLAN.~~~~TRANSFERS~~ ~~FUNDS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

~~(III)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~TREASURER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ADOPT~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~TO~~
~~DETERMINE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INTEREST~~ ~~RATE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~PAYMENTS~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(II)~~ ~~PARAGRAPH.~~~~SUBPARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(3)~~ ~~ON~~ ~~JANUARY~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025,~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~TREASURER~~~~OR~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~
~~TRUST~~~~ALLOW~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TRANSFER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FUNDS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~QUALIFIED~~
~~STATE~~ ~~PROGRAM,~~ ~~LAW.~~~~TUITION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~FEDERAL~~

– 17 –

PAGE 18
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

NOTWITHSTANDING LAW, [Board](h) ~~The~~ ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THE
STATE TREASURER shall allow the transfer of funds from the Trust to any qualified ABLE
program established in accordance with § 529A of the Internal Revenue Code.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(i) The shall set procedures to ensure that
contributions to the Trust plus contributions or payments to other qualified ~~State~~ STATE
tuition programs do not exceed a total maximum amount determined by § 529 of the
Internal Revenue Code for contributions to multiple qualified ~~State~~ tuitionSTATE
programs.

(j) The Maryland prepaid contract plan shall be referred to as the Senator
Edward J. Kasemeyer prepaid contract plan.

18–1910.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) (1) The shall issue refunds as specified in
this section.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) Unless authorized by the or under
subsection (b) of this section, a refund may not exceed the amount paid into the Trust by
the account holder.

(b) A refund equal to the same benefits as provided by the prepaid contract, minus
any amount paid out of the funds of the Trust on behalf of the qualified beneficiary and for
reasonable administrative charges, shall be made if the beneficiary:

(1) Is awarded a scholarship or tuition remission that covers benefits
provided under the prepaid contract; or

(2) Dies or suffers from a disability which prevents the beneficiary from
attending an institution of higher education within the time allowed by this subtitle.

(c) (1) A reduced refund of the contributions made to the Trust, as determined
[Board] STATE TREASURER,by the shall be made if:

(i) The beneficiary does not attend an institution of higher
education;

(ii) Benefits are not exercised under the contract within a time
specified in the contract; or

(iii) The prepaid contract is canceled by the account holder.

– 18 –

PAGE 19
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(2) The time that a qualified beneficiary spends in active duty as a member
of the United States armed forces shall be added to the time period allowed to exercise the
benefits under a prepaid contract before a termination under paragraph (1) of this
subsection.

18–1911.

[Board] PROGRAM,The Trust, and prepaid contracts issued under this subtitle are
not subject to the provisions of the Insurance Article.

18–1912.

The assets and income of the Trust are exempt from State and local taxation.

18–1913.

(a) In this section, “person” does not include the State.

(b) A person may not attach, execute, garnish, or otherwise seize any current or
future benefit under a prepaid contract or any asset of the Trust.

18–1914.

(a) Nothing in this subtitle or in any prepaid contract may be construed as a
[Board] STATE TREASURERpromise or guarantee by the of admission to, continued
enrollment at, or graduation from an institution of higher education.

(b) The actual tuition rate charged to a qualified beneficiary shall be determined
at the time of enrollment in accordance with the residency policy adopted by the governing
board of the institution of higher education at which the qualified beneficiary enrolls.

18–1915.

The State and its agencies or any local government in the State may agree, by
contract or otherwise, to remit payments on behalf of an employee toward a prepaid
contract through payroll deductions.

18–1916.

(a) (1) The Legislative Auditor shall audit the Trust as provided under Title 2,
Subtitle 12 of the State Government Article.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall cause an audit of the Trust to
be made by an outside independent auditor annually.

– 19 –

PAGE 20
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[Board] STATE TREASURER(3) The shall pay for the audit required
under paragraph (2) of this subsection.

[Board] STATE(b) (1) Within 120 days after the close of each fiscal year, the
TREASURER shall submit to the Governor and, subject to § 2–1257 of the State
Government Article, to the General Assembly a report including:

(i) The audit of the outside independent auditor;

(ii) A financial accounting of the Trust, including:

1. The annual review of the comprehensive investment plan
which shall include:

A. The status of the investment program, including
investment income matched to projected enrollment costs under the existing prepaid
contracts;

B. The assets held in each class of investment, the amount of
funds held in any cash pool, the amount of funds held in fixed assets investments, and the
amount of funds held in equity investments;

C. The percentage and dollar value of assets placed with
outside managers;

D. The income produced by each class of investment; and

E. The income produced by each investment manager; and

2. A detailed account of the operating and administrative
budget for the Trust, which shall include a complete list of revenue sources and
expenditures detailing the line item expenditures for:

A. Salaries, wages, and fringe benefits;

B. Technical and special fees;

C. Communication;

D. Travel;

E. Contractual services;

F. Supplies and materials;

G. Equipment;

– 20 –

PAGE 21
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

H. Fixed charges; and

I. Other expenses;

(iii) The number of prepaid contracts entered into during the
previous fiscal year;

[Board] STATE TREASURER(iv) Efforts by the in marketing the
prepaid contracts under the Trust; and

[Board] STATE TREASURER(v) Any recommendations of the
concerning the operation of the Trust.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall make available to each account
holder a copy of a summary of the report and the option to purchase the full report at a
nominal charge.

(c) The audit required by subsection (a)(2) of this section and the report required
by subsection (b) of this section may be combined with any other audit or report for the
[Board] STATE TREASURERsame fiscal year required to be submitted by the to the
Governor and the General Assembly.

18–1917.

(A) (1) EXCEPT ~~(2),~~ ~~(3),~~ ~~(4)~~ (2)AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPHS ~~AND~~ AND
(3) LAW,OF THIS SUBSECTION AND NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF
AN ACCOUNT HOLDER OR A QUALIFIED BENEFICIARY MAY FILE A CLAIM ARISING
TRUST STATE TREASURER,FROM THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE WITH THE AS
TRUST.FIDUCIARY OF THE

(2) ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~ A~~TO~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~A~~ CLAIM
MAY BE FILED ONLY BY AN ACCOUNT HOLDER OR A QUALIFIED BENEFICIARY FOR AN
NOVEMBER 1, 2021.ACCOUNT THAT WAS OPEN AND EXISTING ON OR AFTER

~~(3)~~ BY:

(I) AN HOLDER;ACCOUNT OR

(II) A QUALIFIED BENEFICIARY ~~MAY~~ ~~ONLY~~ ~~FILE~~ ~~A~~ ~~CLAIM~~
~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~ FOR A DISTRIBUTION THAT WAS MADE TO THE QUALIFIED
BENEFICIARY OR TO AN ELIGIBLE EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION ON THE
BENEFICIARY’S BEHALF.

– 21 –

PAGE 22
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(4)~~ (3) ANY CLAIM BROUGHT UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL BE
SUBTITLE.SUBJECT TO THE EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS SET FORTH IN THIS

(B) A (A)CLAIM FILED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS
FILED:SECTION SHALL BE

(1) FOR A CLAIM RELATING TO THE UPDATED TERMS INCLUDED IN
TRUSTTHE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT FOR THE THAT WENT INTO EFFECT
NOVEMBER 1, 2021:

(I) NOT SOONER THAN THE DATE OF THE NOTICE TO ACCOUNT
(J)(2)(I) SECTION;HOLDERS REQUIRED BY SUBSECTION OF THIS AND

(II) NOT DECEMBER 31, 2023;LATER THAN OR

(2) FOR CLAIMS, 1ALL OTHER YEAR AFTER THE DATE THE CLAIM
ARISES.

(C) A SHALL:CLAIM UNDER THIS SECTION

(1) CONTAIN A CONCISE STATEMENT OF FACTS THAT SETS FORTH
CLAIM;THE NATURE OF THE

(2) STATE NAME, ADDRESS, NUMBER, E–MAILTHE TELEPHONE AND
ADDRESS, ANY, CLAIMANT;IF OF THE

(3) STATE PREPAID TRUSTTHE ACCOUNT NUMBER TO WHICH THE
RELATES;CLAIM

(4) CONTAIN ANY OTHER INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE SET FORTH
STATEIN A CLAIM BY ANY PROCEDURES OR REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE
TREASURER (J) SECTION;IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS

(5) STATE NAME, ADDRESS, NUMBER, E–MAILTHE TELEPHONE AND
CLAIMANT,ADDRESS OF THE LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE OR COUNSEL FOR THE IF
ANY; AND

(6) BE CLAIMANT,SIGNED BY THE OR THE LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE
CLAIMANT.OR COUNSEL FOR THE

(D) (1) SUBJECT (2) (3) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS THE
STATE TREASURER SHALL:

(I) INVESTIGATE CLAIM;THE
– 22 –

PAGE 23
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(II) APPROVE PART;OR DENY THE CLAIM IN WHOLE OR IN AND

(III) NOTIFY CLAIMANT,THE OR THE LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE
CLAIMANT, ANY,OR COUNSEL FOR THE IF IN WRITING OF THE FINAL
DETERMINATION.

(2) IN STATE TREASURER’STHE EXERCISE OF THE FIDUCIARY
DUTIES, STATE TREASURER MAY:THE

(I) DELEGATE, PARTLY, RESPONSIBILITY,WHOLLY OR THIS
PROVIDED THAT ANY DELEGATE SHALL BE A FIDUCIARY WITH RESPECT TO MAKING
CLAIM;A FINAL DETERMINATION OF A AND

(II) CONTRACT FOR ANY SUPPORT SERVICES THAT ARE NEEDED
RESPONSIBILITY.TO CARRY OUT THIS

(3) FOR CLAIMS RELATING TO THE UPDATED TERMS INCLUDED IN
TRUSTTHE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT FOR THE THAT WENT INTO EFFECT
NOVEMBER 1, 2021, PRACTICABLE, STATE TREASURERTO THE EXTENT THE SHALL
WHO:PRIORITIZE THE PROCESSING OF CLAIMS OF ACCOUNT HOLDERS

(I) HAVE SOUGHT ~~DISBURSEMENTS~~ DISTRIBUTIONS FOR
JUNE 1, 2023;QUALIFIED HIGHER EDUCATION EXPENSES BEFORE OR

(II) WILL BE SEEKING ~~DISBURSEMENTS~~ DISTRIBUTIONS FOR
2023.QUALIFIED HIGHER EDUCATION EXPENSES FOR THE FALL OF CALENDAR YEAR

(E) EACH STATE TREASURERFINAL DETERMINATION MADE BY THE IN
SECTION, MADE:ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SHALL BE

(1) INDEPENDENTLY STATE TREASURER’SAND IN THE ROLE AS
TRUST;FIDUCIARY TO THE AND

(2) SOLELY CONSIDERING THE INTERESTS OF ALL OF THE ACCOUNT
TRUST.HOLDERS AND QUALIFIED BENEFICIARIES UNDER THE

(F) ACCEPTANCE CLAIMANT:OF A SETTLEMENT BY A

(1) WITH RESPECT TO A CLAIM BROUGHT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
(B)(1) SECTION,SUBSECTION OF THIS SHALL BE CONDITIONED ON AN AGREEMENT
OF THE ACCOUNT HOLDER TO TRANSFER ALL FUNDS IN THE ACCOUNT TO ANY
PROGRAM;OTHER QUALIFIED STATE TUITION AND

– 23 –

PAGE 24
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) IS, AS TO THAT CLAIMANT AND ANY QUALIFIED BENEFICIARY OF
RELATES:THE ACCOUNT TO WHICH THE CLAIM

(I) FINAL; AND

(II) A COMPLETE RELEASE OF EACH CLAIM ARISING FROM THE
TRUST AGAINST:ADMINISTRATION OF THE

1. THE STATE;

2. EACH UNITS;OF ITS

3. ALL STATE PERSONNEL; AND

4. THE TRUST.

(G) THE STATE TREASURER, TRUST:AS FIDUCIARY OF THE

(1) MAKES THE FINAL DETERMINATION WITH RESPECT TO CLAIMS
SECTION;SUBMITTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS AND

(2) IS TITLE 10, SUBTITLES 2EXEMPT FROM THE PROVISIONS OF AND
3 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.OF THE

(H) ANY CLAIM BY AN ACCOUNT HOLDER OR A QUALIFIED BENEFICIARY
TRUSTARISING FROM THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE SHALL BE MADE SOLELY
TRUST.AGAINST THE ASSETS OF THE

(I) NOTWITHSTANDING LAW,ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS SECTION
PROVIDES THE EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR A CLAIM AGAINST THE ASSETS OF THE
TRUST.

(J) (1) THE STATE TREASURER SHALL:

(I) FOR CLAIMS BROUGHT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION
(B)(1) SECTION,OF THIS ESTABLISH PROCEDURES TO IMPLEMENT THE CLAIM
CLAIMS;PROCESS ESTABLISHED IN THIS SECTION FOR THOSE AND

(II) FOR CLAIMS,ALL OTHER ADOPT REGULATIONS FOR THE
SECTION.CLAIM PROCESS ESTABLISHED IN THIS

(2) THE STATE TREASURER SHALL PROVIDE NOTICE TO ACCOUNT
10 OF:HOLDERS WITHIN BUSINESS DAYS

– 24 –

PAGE 25
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(I) THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PROCEDURES DESCRIBED IN
SUBSECTION;THIS AND

(II) THE ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH
SUBSECTION.THIS

18–19A–01.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Account holder” means the person who established an investment account on
behalf of a qualified designated beneficiary.

[“Board”(c) means the Maryland 529 Board established under § 18–1904 of this
title.

(d)] “Eligible educational institution” has the meaning stated in § 529(e) of the
Internal Revenue Code.

[(e)] (D) “Investment account” means an account established by an account
holder under this subtitle on behalf of a qualified designated beneficiary for the purpose of
applying distributions toward qualified higher education expenses at eligible educational
institutions.

[(f)] (E) “Plan” means the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College
Investment Plan established under this subtitle.

[(g)] (F) “Qualified designated beneficiary” has the meaning stated in § 529 of
the Internal Revenue Code.

[(h)] (G) “Qualified higher education expenses” has the meaning stated in § 529
of the Internal Revenue Code.

[(i)] (H) “Qualified state tuition program” has the meaning stated in § 529 of the
Internal Revenue Code.

18–19A–02.

(a) There is a Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College Investment Plan.

(b) The purpose of the Plan is to allow contributions to an investment account
established for the purposes of meeting the qualified higher education expenses of the
qualified designated beneficiary of the account.

– 25 –

PAGE 26
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[Board] STATE TREASURER(c) (1) The shall administer, manage, promote,
and market the Plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall administer the Plan in
compliance with Internal Revenue Service standards for qualified ~~State~~ tuitionSTATE
programs.

[Board] STATE TREASURER [Board](d) The shall adopt procedures that the
STATE TREASURER considers necessary to carry out the provisions of this subtitle.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(e) The shall adopt procedures relating to:

(1) Application procedures for participation in the Plan;

(2) Start–up costs incurred by the State for the development of the Plan
with these costs to be reimbursed to the State by the Plan;

(3) Early withdrawals, so that there will be no major detriment to the
remaining account holders in the Plan;

(4) The State contribution program;

(5) Transfer of funds from the Plan to other qualified ~~State~~ tuitionSTATE
programs and from other qualified ~~State~~ tuition programs to the Plan in accordanceSTATE
with federal law; and

(6) Transfer of funds from the Plan to a qualified ABLE program
established in accordance with § 529A of the Internal Revenue Code.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(f) At least annually, the shall issue to each
account holder a statement that provides a separate accounting for each qualified
designated beneficiary providing the following information with respect to each account:

(1) The beginning balance;

(2) Contributions to the account, including any State contribution;

(3) Withdrawals from the account during the previous year; and

(4) Ending investment account value.

18–19A–03.

– 26 –

PAGE 27
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) (1) The may issue requests for proposals to
evaluate and determine the means for the administration, management, promotion, or
marketing of the Plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall consider proposals that meet
the following criteria:

(i) Ability to develop and administer an investment program of a
nature similar to the objectives of the Plan;

(ii) Ability to administer financial programs with individual account
records and reporting;

(iii) Ability to market the Plan to Maryland residents;

(iv) Ability to market the Plan to nonresidents of Maryland; and

(v) Ability to coordinate the Plan with other programs or
[Board] STATE TREASURER,informational services considered beneficial by the including
the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust established under
Subtitle 19 of this title.

(b) (1) Except for applications made under § 18–19A–04.1 of this subtitle, the
[Board] STATE TREASURER may require an initial application fee to be used for
administrative costs of the Plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The may require additional fees
associated with the expenses of the Plan.

(c) (1) Contributions to the Plan on behalf of a qualified designated beneficiary
[Board] STATE TREASURERmay not exceed the maximum amount determined by the to
be in accordance with § 529 of the Internal Revenue Code.

(2) Contributions to the Plan may be made only in cash or cash equivalent.

(3) The Plan shall include provisions for automatic contributions.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(d) The shall adopt procedures to ensure that
contributions to the Plan plus contributions or payments to other qualified ~~State~~ STATE
tuition programs do not exceed a total maximum amount determined under § 529 of the
Internal Revenue Code for contributions to multiple qualified ~~State~~ tuitionSTATE
programs.

(e) (1) The Plan:

– 27 –

PAGE 28
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[Board](i) Shall be established in the form determined by the
STATE TREASURER; and

[Board](ii) May be established as a trust to be declared by the
STATE TREASURER.

(2) The Plan may be divided into multiple investment portfolios.

(3) If the Plan is divided into multiple portfolios as provided in paragraph
(2) of this subsection, the debts, liabilities, obligations, and expenses incurred, contracted
for, or otherwise existing with respect to a particular portfolio shall be enforceable against
the assets of that portfolio only and not against the assets of the Plan generally, if:

(i) Distinct records are maintained for each portfolio; and

(ii) The assets associated with each portfolio are accounted for
separately from the other assets of the Plan.

(f) The Maryland College Investment Plan shall be referred to as the Senator
Edward J. Kasemeyer College Investment Plan.

18–19A–04.

(a) A Maryland resident or a nonresident of Maryland may participate in and
benefit from the Plan.

(b) Distributions shall be requested by the account holder.

18–19A–04.1.

(a) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, for investment accounts
established after December 31, 2016, a State contribution may be made to not more than
two investment accounts for each qualified beneficiary as provided in this section if:

(i) The qualified beneficiary of the investment account and the
account holder are Maryland residents;

(ii) The account holder is at least 18 years old for applications filed
on or after January 1, 2022;

[Board] STATE(iii) The account holder submits an application to the
TREASURER [its] STATE TREASURER’Sor designee between January 1 and June 1THE
of each year;

– 28 –

PAGE 29
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(iv) The account holder has Maryland adjusted gross income in the
previous taxable year no greater than $112,500 for an individual or $175,000 for a married
couple filing a joint return;

(v) The account holder files income taxes on or before July 15 of each
year; and

(vi) The qualified beneficiary is under the age of 26 years in the
calendar year before the account holder submits an application.

(2) For State contribution application periods after December 31, 2020, a
qualified beneficiary may not receive more than two State contributions for each year the
qualified beneficiary is eligible for the State contribution under this section.

(b) (1) An application may be made in person, online, or by mail.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall develop:

(i) An application form that:

1. Includes permission for confirming Maryland taxable
income with the Comptroller; and

2. Allows for certification of Maryland residency;

(ii) A procedure to certify the date and time of receipt of an
application; and

(iii) Any other necessary procedures for the submittal of applications.

(c) (1) For an account holder with Maryland adjusted gross income of less than
$50,000 for an individual or $75,000 for a married couple filing a joint return who
contributes at least $25 per beneficiary during the contribution period in subsection (e) of
this section, the State shall provide an additional $500 per beneficiary.

(2) For an account holder with Maryland adjusted gross income of at least
$50,000 but less than $87,500 for an individual or at least $75,000 but less than $125,000
for a married couple filing a joint return who contributes at least $100 per beneficiary
during the contribution period in subsection (e) of this section, the State shall provide an
additional $500 per beneficiary.

(3) For an account holder with Maryland adjusted gross income of at least
$87,500 but no greater than $112,500 for an individual or at least $125,000 but no greater
than $175,000 for a married couple filing a joint return who contributes at least $250 per
beneficiary during the contribution period in subsection (e) of this section, the State shall
provide an additional $250 per beneficiary.

– 29 –

PAGE 30
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(d) (1) The Governor shall include in the annual budget bill an appropriation
of at least ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~amounts~~ ~~for~~ ~~State~~ ~~contributions:~~

~~(i)~~ ~~$5,000,000~~ ~~in~~ ~~fiscal~~ ~~year~~ ~~2018;~~ ~~and~~

~~(ii)~~ $3,000,000 in ~~fiscal~~ ~~year~~ ~~2019~~ ~~and~~ each fiscal year ~~thereafter.~~

(2) If the funding provided in a fiscal year is not sufficient to fully fund all
[Board] STATE TREASURERState contributions authorized under this section, the shall:

(i) Provide contributions in the order in which applications are
received; and

(ii) Give priority to applications of account holders who have not
received a contribution.

(e) (1) An account holder shall contribute at least the amount specified under
subsection (c) of this section on or before November 1 of each year in order to qualify for the
State contribution.

(2) A State contribution shall be made by December 31 of the calendar year
in which the account holder made the contribution.

(f) (1) An account holder is not eligible for the subtraction modification under
§ 10–208 of the Tax – General Article for any taxable year in which the account holder
receives a State contribution.

(2) An account holder may qualify for not more than $9,000 in State
contributions through the lifetime of the account holder.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(g) (1) The shall ~~develop~~ ~~and~~ ~~implement~~ ~~by~~
~~September~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2018,~~ an outreach and marketing plan to provide notification toUTILIZE
individuals about the availability of a State contribution.

(2) The outreach and marketing plan shall:

(i) Make use of a variety of marketing media, including billboards,
brochures, and electronic resources; and

(ii) Provide a centralized contact point for individuals to obtain
information about opening an account and the availability of a State contribution.

[(3) By December 1, 2018, the Board shall submit a report in accordance
with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article to the General Assembly on the details of
plan.]the outreach and marketing

– 30 –

PAGE 31
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

[Board] STATE TREASURER [Board](h) The may adopt any regulations that the
STATE TREASURER considers necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

18–19A–05.

(a) (1) The debts, contracts, and obligations of the Plan are not the contracts,
debts, or obligations of the State and neither the faith and credit nor taxing power of the
State is pledged directly or indirectly or contingently, morally or otherwise, to the payment
of the debts, contracts, and obligations.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The cannot directly or indirectly or
contingently obligate, morally or otherwise, the State to levy or pledge any form of taxation
whatsoever for the debts and obligations of the Plan or to make any appropriation for the
payment of the debts and obligations of the Plan.

(b) Neither the State nor any eligible educational institution shall be liable for
any losses or shortage of funds in the event that the account holder’s investment account
balance is insufficient to meet the tuition requirements of an institution attended by the
qualified designated beneficiary.

(c) Money of the Plan may not be considered money of the State or deposited in
the State Treasury.

(d) Money of the Plan may not be considered money of or commingled with the
Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust.

(e) Money of the Plan may not be considered money of or commingled with the
Maryland Broker–Dealer College Investment Plan.

(f) Money of the Plan may not be considered money of or commingled with the
Maryland ABLE Program.

18–19A–05.1.

[Board] MARYLAND 529 PROGRAM,The Plan, and investment accounts issued
under this subtitle are not subject to the provisions of the Insurance Article.

18–19A–06.

The assets and income of the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College
Investment Plan are exempt from State and local taxation.

18–19A–06.1.

(a) In this section, “person” does not include the State.

– 31 –

PAGE 32
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) A person may not attach, execute, garnish, or otherwise seize any current or
future benefit under an investment account or any asset of the Plan.

18–19A–07.

(a) (1) The Legislative Auditor shall audit the Plan as provided under Title 2,
Subtitle 12 of the State Government Article.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall obtain an annual audit report
from service providers.

[Board] STATE(b) (1) Within 120 days after the close of each fiscal year, the
TREASURER shall submit to the Governor and, subject to § 2–1257 of the State
Government Article, to the General Assembly a report including:

(i) A financial accounting of the Plan, including:

1. An annual review of the Plan which shall include:

A. The status of the investment program;

B. The assets held in each class of investment;

C. The percentage and dollar value of assets placed with
outside managers;

D. The income produced by each class of investment;

E. The income produced by each investment manager;

F. The total deposits into the Plan for the past year; and

G. The total withdrawals from the Plan for the past year; and

2. A detailed account of the operating and administrative
budget for the Plan, which shall include a complete list of revenue sources and expenditures
detailing the line item expenditures for:

A. Salaries, wages, and fringe benefits;

B. Technical and special fees;

C. Communication;

D. Travel;

– 32 –

PAGE 33
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

E. Contractual services;

F. Supplies and materials;

G. Equipment;

H. Fixed charges; and

I. Other expenses;

(ii) The number of new account holders during the previous fiscal
year;

(iii) Efforts in marketing the Plan; and

[Board] STATE TREASURER(iv) Any recommendations of the
concerning the operation of the Plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall make available to each account
holder a copy of a summary of the report and the option to purchase the full report at a
nominal charge.

~~[(c)~~ The audit required by subsection (a)(2) of this section and the report required
STATE TREASURER’Sby subsection (b) of this section, at the ~~Board’s~~ discretion, may be
combined with any other audit or report for the same fiscal year required to be submitted
STATE TREASURER Assembly.]by the ~~Board~~ to the Governor and the General

18–19B–01.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Account holder” means the person who established an investment account on
behalf of a qualified designated beneficiary.

[“Board”(c) means the Maryland 529 Board established under § 18–1904 of this
title.

(d)] “Broker–Dealer Plan” means the Maryland Broker–Dealer College
Investment Plan established under this subtitle.

[(e)] (D) “Eligible educational institution” has the meaning stated in § 529(e) of
the Internal Revenue Code.

[(f)] (E) “Investment account” means an account established by an account
holder under this subtitle on behalf of a qualified designated beneficiary for the purpose of
– 33 –

PAGE 34
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

applying distributions toward qualified higher education expenses at eligible educational
institutions.

[(g)] (F) “Qualified designated beneficiary” has the meaning stated in § 529(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code.

[(h)] (G) “Qualified higher education expenses” has the meaning stated in §
529(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.

[(i)] (H) “Qualified State tuition program” has the meaning stated in § 529 of
the Internal Revenue Code.

18–19B–02.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) The may establish a Maryland Broker–Dealer
College Investment Plan.

(b) The purpose of the Broker–Dealer Plan is to provide for a broker–dealer
distributed vehicle that would allow contributions to an investment account established for
the purposes of meeting the qualified higher education expenses of the qualified designated
beneficiary of the account.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(c) (1) The shall administer, manage, and
promote the Broker–Dealer Plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall administer the Broker–Dealer
Plan in compliance with Internal Revenue Service standards for qualified ~~State~~ STATE
tuition programs.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(d) (1) The shall adopt procedures relating to:

(i) Enrollment procedures for participation in the Broker–Dealer
Plan;

(ii) Start–up costs incurred by the State for the development of the
Broker–Dealer Plan with these costs to be reimbursed to the State by the Broker–Dealer
Plan;

(iii) Early withdrawals so that there will be no major detriment to
the remaining account holders in the Broker–Dealer Plan;

(iv) Transfer of funds from the Broker–Dealer Plan to other qualified
State tuition programs and from other qualified State tuition programs to the
Broker–Dealer Plan in accordance with federal law; and

– 34 –

PAGE 35
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(v) Transfer of funds from the Broker–Dealer Plan to a qualified
ABLE program established in accordance with § 529A of the Internal Revenue Code.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall adopt any other procedures
[Board] STATE TREASURERthat the considers necessary to carry out the provisions of
this subtitle.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(e) At least annually, the shall issue to each
account holder a statement that provides a separate accounting for each qualified
designated beneficiary providing the following information with respect to each account:

(1) The beginning balance;

(2) Contributions to the account;

(3) Withdrawals from the account during the previous year; and

(4) Ending investment account value.

18–19B–03.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) (1) The may issue requests for proposals to
evaluate and determine the means for the administration, management, promotion, or
marketing of the Broker–Dealer Plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall consider proposals that meet
the following criteria:

(i) Ability to develop and administer an investment program of a
nature similar to the objectives of the Broker–Dealer Plan;

(ii) Ability to administer financial programs with individual account
records and reporting; and

(iii) Ability to market the Broker–Dealer Plan to Maryland residents
[Board’s] STATE TREASURER’Sand, at the discretion, nonresidents of Maryland.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(b) (1) The may require an initial enrollment fee
to be used for administrative costs of the Broker–Dealer Plan.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The may require additional fees
associated with the expenses of the Broker–Dealer Plan.

(c) (1) Contributions to the Broker–Dealer Plan on behalf of a qualified
[Board]designated beneficiary may not exceed the maximum amount determined by the
STATE TREASURER to be in accordance with § 529 of the Internal Revenue Code.
– 35 –

PAGE 36
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) Contributions to the Broker–Dealer Plan may be made only in cash or
cash equivalents.

(3) The Broker–Dealer Plan shall include provisions for automatic
contributions.

(d) (1) The Broker–Dealer Plan:

(i) May be established as one or more separate plans as determined
[Board] STATE TREASURER;by the

[Board] STATE TREASURER,(ii) If established by the shall be
[Board] STATE TREASURER;established in the form determined by the

(iii) Shall be marketed and promoted under the name or names
[Board] STATE TREASURER;determined by the and

(iv) May be established as one or more trusts to be declared by the
[Board] STATE TREASURER.

(2) The Broker–Dealer Plan may be divided into multiple investment
options.

18–19B–04.

[Board’s] STATE TREASURER’S(a) A Maryland resident or, at the discretion, a
nonresident of Maryland may participate in and benefit from the Broker–Dealer Plan.

(b) Distributions shall be requested by the account holder.

18–19B–05.

(a) (1) The debts, contracts, and obligations of the Broker–Dealer Plan are not
the contracts, debts, or obligations of the State, and neither the faith and credit nor taxing
power of the State is pledged directly or indirectly or contingently, morally or otherwise, to
the payment of the debts, contracts, and obligations.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The cannot directly or indirectly or
contingently obligate, morally or otherwise, the State to levy or pledge any form of taxation
whatsoever for the debts and obligations of the Broker–Dealer Plan or to make any
appropriation for the payment of the debts and obligations of the Broker–Dealer Plan.

(b) Neither the State nor any eligible educational institution shall be liable for
any losses or shortage of funds in the event that the account holder’s investment account

– 36 –

PAGE 37
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

balance is insufficient to meet the tuition requirements of an institution attended by the
qualified designated beneficiary.

(c) Money of the Broker–Dealer Plan may not be considered money of the State
or deposited in the State Treasury.

(d) Money of the Broker–Dealer Plan may not be considered money of or
commingled with the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust.

(e) Money of the Broker–Dealer Plan may not be considered money of or
commingled with the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College Investment Plan.

(f) Money of the Broker–Dealer Plan may not be considered money of or
commingled with the Maryland ABLE Program.

18–19B–06.

[Board] MARYLAND 529 PROGRAM,(a) The the Broker–Dealer Plan, and the
investment accounts issued under this subtitle are not subject to the provisions of the
Insurance Article.

(b) The assets and income of the Maryland Broker–Dealer College Investment
Plan are exempt from State and local taxation.

18–19B–07.

(a) In this section, “person” does not include the State.

(b) A person may not attach, execute, garnish, or otherwise seize any current or
future benefit under an investment account or any asset of the Broker–Dealer Plan.

18–19B–08.

(a) The Legislative Auditor shall audit the Broker–Dealer Plan as provided under
Title 2, Subtitle 12 of the State Government Article.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(b) The shall obtain an annual audit report from
service provider(s) within six months of the end of such service provider’s reporting period.

18–19C–01.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “ABLE account” means an account described under § 529A(e) of the Internal
Revenue Code.

– 37 –

PAGE 38
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(c) “ABLE account contributor” means an individual who contributes money to
an ABLE account described under § 529A(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(d) “ABLE account holder” means an individual who ~~has~~ ~~established~~ ~~an~~ ~~account~~
~~described~~ ~~under~~ ~~§~~ ~~529A(e)~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Internal~~ ~~Revenue~~ ~~Code~~ ~~and~~ is the designated beneficiary
§ 529A(E) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.of ~~the~~ accountAN DESCRIBED UNDER OF THE

[“Board”(e) means the Maryland 529 Board established under § 18–1904 of this
title.

(f)] “Designated beneficiary” means an individual described in § 529A(e) of the
Internal Revenue Code.

[(g)] (F) “Maryland ABLE Program” means a qualified ABLE program described
in § 529A(b) of the Internal Revenue Code.

[(h)] (G) “Qualified disability expenses” means expenses described in § 529A(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code.

18–19C–02.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) (1) The shall establish a Maryland ABLE
Program that shall be subject to the provisions of § 529A of the Internal Revenue Code.

(2) It is the goal of the State that the Maryland ABLE Program be fully
operational by October 1, 2017.

(b) The purpose of the Maryland ABLE Program is to:

(1) Encourage and assist individuals and families in saving private funds
to support individuals with disabilities to maintain health, independence, and quality of
life; and

(2) Provide secure funding for disability–related expenses on behalf of
designated beneficiaries with disabilities that will supplement, not supplant, benefits
provided through private insurance, the Medicaid program under Title XIX of the Social
Security Act, the Supplemental Security Income program under Title XVI of the Social
Security Act, the beneficiary’s employment, and any other source.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(c) (1) The shall ~~develop,~~ ~~establish,~~ administer,
manage, and promote the Maryland ABLE Program.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall administer the Maryland
ABLE Program in compliance with Internal Revenue Service standards for qualified ABLE
programs.

– 38 –

PAGE 39
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

[Board] STATE TREASURER(3) The shall work in consultation with the
Department of Disabilities to ~~develop,~~ administer, manage, and promote the Maryland
ABLE Program.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(4) The may collaborate and participate with
other states or entities to ~~develop,~~ administer, manage, and promote the Maryland ABLE
Program, including participating with a consortium of states that are implementing ABLE
programs in those states or as a consortium of states.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(d) ~~(1)~~ The shall adopt procedures relating to:

~~(i)~~ ~~Enrollment~~ for participation in the MarylandENROLLMENT
ABLE Program; ~~and~~

~~(ii)~~ ~~Start–up~~ ~~costs~~ ~~incurred~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~development~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~
~~Maryland~~ ~~ABLE~~ ~~Program~~ ~~with~~ ~~these~~ ~~costs~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~reimbursed~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~ABLE~~ ~~Program.~~

~~[Board]~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~TREASURER~~~~(2)~~ ~~The~~ ~~shall~~ ~~adopt~~ any otherAND
[Board] STATE TREASURERprocedures that the considers necessary to carry out the
provisions of this subtitle.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(e) At least annually, the shall issue to each ABLE
account holder a statement that provides a separate accounting for each designated
beneficiary providing the following information with respect to each account:

(1) The beginning balance;

(2) Contributions to the account;

(3) Distributions from the account during the previous year; and

(4) Ending ABLE account value.

18–19C–03.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) (1) The may issue requests for proposals to
evaluate and determine the means for the administration, management, promotion, or
marketing of the Maryland ABLE Program.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The shall consider proposals that meet
the following criteria:

(i) Ability to develop and administer an investment program of a
nature similar to the objectives of the Maryland ABLE Program;
– 39 –

PAGE 40
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) Ability to administer financial programs with individual account
records and reporting; and

(iii) Ability to market the Maryland ABLE Program to eligible
individuals.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(b) (1) The may require an initial enrollment fee
to be used for administrative costs of the Maryland ABLE Program.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The may require additional reasonable
fees associated with the expenses of the Maryland ABLE Program.

(c) (1) The Maryland ABLE Program is subject to the provisions of § 529A of
the Internal Revenue Code.

(2) The Maryland ABLE Program shall include provisions for automatic
contributions.

(3) Money and assets in the accounts established under the Maryland
ABLE Program or an ABLE program in any other state may not be considered for the
purpose of determining eligibility to receive, or the amount of, any assistance or benefits
from local or State means–tested programs.

(4) Money and assets contributed in each calendar year to the account of
each ABLE account holder may not exceed the amount specified in § 529A(b)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code for each calendar year in which the taxable year begins.

(5) Contributions to the account of each ABLE account holder may not
[Board] STATE TREASURERexceed the maximum amount determined by the to be in
accordance with § 529A(b)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(d) The Maryland ABLE Program may receive money from:

(1) Appropriations in the State budget;

(2) Reasonable fees assessed to beneficiaries;

(3) Grants or other assistance from federal, State, or local government; and

(4) Any other money from any public or private source.

(e) (1) The Maryland ABLE Program:

(i) May be established as one or more separate plans as determined
[Board] STATE TREASURER;by the

– 40 –

PAGE 41
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

[Board](ii) Shall be established in the form determined by the
STATE TREASURER;

(iii) Shall be marketed and promoted under the name or names
[Board] STATE TREASURER;determined by the and

(iv) May be established as one or more trusts to be declared by the
[Board] STATE TREASURER.

(2) The Maryland ABLE Program may be divided into multiple investment
options.

18–19C–04.

(a) An eligible individual, as defined in § 529A(e) of the Internal Revenue Code,
may participate in and benefit from the Maryland ABLE Program.

(b) Distributions shall be requested by the designated beneficiary subject to the
provisions of § 529A of the Internal Revenue Code.

18–19C–05.

(a) (1) The debts, contracts, and obligations of the Maryland ABLE Program
are not the contracts, debts, or obligations of the State, and neither the faith and credit nor
taxing power of the State is pledged directly or indirectly or contingently, morally or
otherwise, to the payment of the debts, contracts, and obligations.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(2) The may not directly or indirectly or
contingently obligate, morally or otherwise, the State to levy or pledge any form of taxation
whatsoever for the debts and obligations of the Maryland ABLE Program or to make any
appropriation for the payment of the debts and obligations of the Maryland ABLE Program.

(b) The State may not be liable for any losses or shortage of funds in the event
that the designated beneficiary’s ABLE account balance is insufficient to meet the
designated beneficiary’s qualified disability expenses.

(c) Money of the Maryland ABLE Program may not be considered money of the
State or deposited in the State Treasury.

(d) Money of the Maryland ABLE Program may not be considered money of or
commingled with the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust.

(e) Money of the Maryland ABLE Program may not be considered money of or
commingled with the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer College Investment Plan.

– 41 –

PAGE 42
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(f) Money of the Maryland ABLE Program may not be considered money of or
commingled with the Maryland Broker–Dealer College Investment Plan.

18–19C–06.

[Board] MARYLAND 529 PROGRAM,(a) The the Maryland ABLE Program, and
the ABLE accounts issued under this subtitle are not subject to the provisions of the
Insurance Article.

(b) The assets and income of the Maryland ABLE Program are exempt from State
and local taxation.

18–19C–07.

(a) In this section, “person” does not include the State.

(b) A person may not attach, execute, garnish, or otherwise seize any current or
future benefit under an ABLE account or any asset of the Maryland ABLE Program.

18–19C–08.

(a) The Legislative Auditor shall audit the Maryland ABLE Program as provided
under Title 2, Subtitle 12 of the State Government Article.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(b) The shall obtain an annual audit report from a
service provider within 6 months of the end of the reporting period of the service provider.

18–19C–09.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(a) The shall issue refunds as specified in this
section.

(b) If the contribution of an ABLE account contributor under the Maryland ABLE
Program would result in aggregate contributions from all contributors to the ABLE account
for the taxable year exceeding the amount specified in § 529A(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue
[Board] STATECode for each calendar year in which the taxable year begins, the
TREASURER shall issue a refund to the ABLE account contributor.

[Board] STATE TREASURER(c) The shall adopt procedures to ensure that
contributions to the account of each ABLE account holder do not exceed the total maximum
amount determined under § 529A(b)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code.

18–19C–10.

(a) Unless prohibited by federal law, on the death of a designated beneficiary,
money and assets in an ABLE account may be transferred to:

– 42 –

PAGE 43
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

(1) The estate of the designated beneficiary; or

(2) An ABLE account for another eligible individual specified by the
designated beneficiary or the estate of the designated beneficiary.

(b) Unless required by federal law, an agency or instrumentality of the State may
not seek payment under § 529A(f) of the Internal Revenue Code from an ABLE account or
its proceeds for any amount of medical assistance paid for the designated beneficiary.

Article – State Finance and Procurement

11–203.

(f) Except as provided in Title 12, Subtitle 4 and Title 14, Subtitle 3 of this article,
this Division II does not apply to Maryland 529 for:

(1) services of managers to invest the assets of the Maryland Senator
Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust in accordance with the comprehensive
[Maryland Board] STATE TREASURERinvestment plan adopted by the 529 under §
18–1906 of the Education Article; and

(2) expenditures to manage, maintain, and enhance the value of the assets
of the Maryland Senator Edward J. Kasemeyer Prepaid College Trust in accordance with
[Maryland Board] STATEthe comprehensive investment plan adopted by the 529
TREASURER under § 18–1906 of the Education Article.

Article – State Government

9–803.

(a) The Commission consists of the following members:

~~[and]~~(10) the Secretary of Higher Education, or the Secretary’s designee;

~~(11)~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~529~~ ~~PROGRAM,~~~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE;~~~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

(11) SECRETARY DISABILITIES, SECRETARY’STHE OF OR THE
DESIGNEE; AND

~~[(11)]~~ ~~(12)~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~members,~~ ~~appointed~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor:~~

[(11)] (12) the following members, appointed by the Governor:

– 43 –

PAGE 44
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) one member of the Board of Trustees of the Maryland Teachers
and State Employees Supplemental Retirement Plans;

[one(ii) member of the Maryland 529 Board;

(iii)] one member of the Maryland State Education Association who
teaches a course involving principles of financial education;

[(iv)] (III) one representative of the Maryland CASH Campaign;

[(v)] (IV) one representative of a community–focused nonprofit
organization that provides free financial education in the State;

[(vi)] (V) one representative of a philanthropic organization that
provides funding for financial education in the State;

[(vii)] (VI) one representative of the Maryland Council on Economic
Education or the Maryland Coalition for Financial Literacy;

[(viii)] (VII) one representative of a bank, whether or not
State–chartered, that has a branch in the State;

[(ix)] (VIII) one representative of a credit union, whether or not
State–chartered, that has a branch in the State;

[(x)] (IX) one licensed mortgage broker holding the Maryland
Association of Mortgage Brokers’ “Lending Seal of Integrity”;

[(xi)] (X) one member of the Maryland Association of CPAs; and

[(xii)] (XI) one representative of a nonprofit organization in the State
that provides financial assistance and free financial education to State residents for
postsecondary education.

~~SECTION~~ ~~2.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That:~~

~~(a)~~ ~~There~~ ~~is~~ ~~a~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~529~~ ~~Prepaid~~ ~~College~~ ~~Trust~~ ~~Program.~~

~~(b)~~ ~~The~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~consists~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~members:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Treasurer;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~two~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~529~~ ~~account~~ ~~holders~~ ~~who~~ ~~have~~ ~~experienced~~ ~~issues~~
~~accessing~~ ~~their~~ ~~funds,~~ ~~appointed~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor;~~

– 44 –

PAGE 45
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

~~(3)~~ ~~two~~ ~~members~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Senate~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland,~~ ~~appointed~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~President~~ ~~of~~
~~the~~ ~~Senate;~~ ~~and~~

~~(4)~~ ~~two~~ ~~members~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~House~~ ~~of~~ ~~Delegates,~~ ~~appointed~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~Speaker~~ ~~of~~
~~the~~ ~~House.~~

~~(c)~~ ~~The~~ ~~State~~ ~~Treasurer~~ ~~shall~~ ~~provide~~ ~~staff~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~Workgroup.~~

~~(d)~~ ~~The~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~shall~~ ~~elect~~ ~~a~~ ~~chair~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~by~~ ~~a~~ ~~majority~~ ~~vote~~ ~~at~~ ~~the~~
~~first~~ ~~meeting.~~

~~(e)~~ ~~A~~ ~~member~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Workgroup:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~may~~ ~~not~~ ~~receive~~ ~~compensation~~ ~~as~~ ~~a~~ ~~member~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Workgroup;~~ ~~but~~

~~(2)~~ ~~is~~ ~~entitled~~ ~~to~~ ~~reimbursement~~ ~~for~~ ~~expenses~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~Standard~~ ~~State~~
~~Travel~~ ~~Regulations,~~ ~~as~~ ~~provided~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~budget.~~

~~(f)~~ ~~The~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~shall:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~identify~~ ~~policies,~~ ~~procedures,~~ ~~and~~ ~~practices~~ ~~that~~ ~~led~~ ~~to~~ ~~issues~~ ~~relating~~ ~~to~~
~~the~~ ~~earnings~~ ~~calculation~~ ~~formula~~ ~~and~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~529~~ ~~account~~ ~~holders’~~ ~~inability~~ ~~to~~ ~~access~~
~~their~~ ~~prepaid~~ ~~college~~ ~~trust~~ ~~benefits~~ ~~to~~ ~~pay~~ ~~for~~ ~~college~~ ~~expenses;~~ ~~and~~

~~(2)~~ ~~develop~~ ~~and~~ ~~make~~ ~~recommendations~~ ~~for~~ ~~improvement~~ ~~in:~~

~~(i)~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~529~~ ~~policies,~~ ~~procedures,~~ ~~and~~ ~~practices~~ ~~to~~ ~~ensure~~
~~the~~ ~~prevention~~ ~~of~~ ~~similar~~ ~~issues~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~future;~~

~~(ii)~~ ~~communication~~ ~~and~~ ~~transparency~~ ~~for~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~529~~ ~~account~~
~~holders;~~ ~~and~~

~~(iii)~~ ~~accountability~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~individuals~~ ~~responsible~~ ~~for~~ ~~properly~~
~~exercising~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~529’s~~ ~~fiduciary~~ ~~responsibility~~ ~~and~~ ~~managing~~ ~~the~~ ~~prepaid~~ ~~college~~ ~~trust~~
~~to~~ ~~meet~~ ~~its~~ ~~contractual~~ ~~obligations.~~

~~(g)~~ ~~On~~ ~~or~~ ~~before~~ ~~June~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024,~~ ~~the~~ ~~Workgroup~~ ~~shall~~ ~~report~~ ~~its~~ ~~findings~~ ~~and~~
~~recommendations~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor~~ ~~and,~~ ~~in~~ ~~accordance~~ ~~with~~ ~~§~~ ~~2–1257~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~
~~Government~~ ~~Article,~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly.~~

SECTION ~~3.~~ 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on June 1, 2023, the
Maryland 529 Board is hereby abolished and the State Treasurer shall be the successor of
the Maryland 529 Board.

SECTION ~~4.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

– 45 –

PAGE 46
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) The responsibility for administering the Maryland 529 Program shall be
transferred to the Office of the State Treasurer on June 1, 2023.

(b) (1) All appropriations, including State and federal funds, held by the
agencies and units of the State to carry out the functions, programs, and services
transferred under this Act shall be transferred to the Office of the State Treasurer on June
1, 2023.

(2) Funding for the services and programs under the Maryland 529
Program shall be provided for the Office of the State Treasurer beginning in the fiscal year
2025 State budget.

(3) Federal fund grants directed to the State through other State agencies
shall be transferred to the Office of the State Treasurer on June 1, 2023.

(c) Before June 1, 2023:

(1) the Maryland 529 Board and its staff shall cooperate fully and in a
timely manner with all requests from the State Treasurer related to the transition of the
Maryland 529 Program to the Office of the State Treasurer, including any requests to:

(i) inspect records and documents related to the Program; and

(ii) receive information or services from outside service providers
engaged by the Board; and

(2) the State Treasurer may take any action deemed necessary or
appropriate to prepare for the transfer of the administration of the Maryland 529 Program
to the Office of the State Treasurer on June 1, 2023.

~~(c)~~ (d) On June 1, 2023, all of the functions, powers, duties, books and records
(including electronic records), real and personal property, equipment, fixtures, assets,
liabilities, obligations, credits, rights, and privileges of the agencies, units, and entities that
are transferred under this Act shall be transferred to the Office of the State Treasurer.

SECTION ~~5.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That all employees who are
transferred to the Office of the State Treasurer as a result of this Act shall be transferred
without diminution of their rights, benefits, employment, or retirement status.

SECTION ~~6.~~ 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, except as expressly
provided to the contrary in this Act, any transaction affected by or flowing from any statute
added, amended, repealed, or transferred under this Act and validly entered into before the
effective date of this Act, and every right, duty, or interest flowing from it remains valid
after the effective date of this Act and may be terminated, completed, consummated, or
enforced under the law.

– 46 –

PAGE 47
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 113

SECTION ~~7.~~ 6. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, except as otherwise
provided by law, all existing laws, regulations, proposed regulations, standards and
guidelines, policies, orders and other directives, forms, plans, memberships, contracts,
property, investigations, administrative and judicial responsibilities, rights to sue and be
sued, and all other duties and responsibilities associated with the functions of the agencies
and units that are subjects of this Act prior to the effective date of this Act shall continue
in effect under and, as appropriate, are legal and binding on the State Treasurer until
completed, withdrawn, canceled, modified, or otherwise changed.

SECTION ~~8.~~ 7. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the regulations regarding
the Maryland 529 Program that were adopted before June 1, 2023, by the Maryland 529
Board that do not conflict with the provisions of this Act continue to be in force and effect
unless otherwise altered by the State Treasurer.

SECTION ~~9.~~ 8. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, as provided in this Act:

(a) The State Treasurer is the successor of the Maryland 529 Board.

(b) In every law, executive order, rule, regulation, policy, or document created by
an official, an employee, or a unit of this State, the names and titles of those agencies and
officials mean the names and titles of the successor agency or official.

SECTION ~~10.~~ 9. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That any transaction or
employment status affected by or flowing from any change of nomenclature or any statute
amended by this Act and validly entered into or existing before the effective date of this Act
and every right, duty, or interest flowing from a statute amended by this Act remains valid
after the effective date of this Act and may be terminated, completed, consummated, or
enforced as required or allowed by any statute amended by this Act as though the
amendment had not occurred. If a change in nomenclature involves a change in name or
designation of any State unit, the successor unit shall be considered in all respects as
having the powers and obligations granted to the former unit.

SECTION ~~11.~~ 10. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) The continuity of every commission, office, department, agency, or other unit
is retained.

(b) The personnel, records, files, furniture, fixtures, and other properties and all
appropriations, credits, assets, liabilities, and obligations of each retained unit are
continued as the personnel, records, files, furniture, fixtures, properties, appropriations,
credits, assets, liabilities, and obligations of the unit under the laws enacted by this Act.

SECTION ~~12.~~ 11. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

– 47 –

PAGE 48
Ch. 113 2023 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(a)~~ ~~The~~ ~~balance~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Senator~~ ~~Edward~~ ~~J.~~ ~~Kasemeyer~~ ~~Prepaid~~ ~~College~~
~~Trust~~ ~~account,~~ ~~following~~ ~~the~~ ~~distribution~~ ~~in~~ ~~accordance~~ ~~with~~ ~~Section~~ ~~1~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act,~~ ~~is~~ ~~an~~
~~accurate~~ ~~allocation~~ ~~of~~ ~~principal~~ ~~and~~ ~~earnings~~ ~~of~~ ~~that~~ ~~account.~~

~~(b)~~ ~~The~~ ~~distribution~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~account~~ ~~in~~ ~~accordance~~ ~~with~~ ~~Section~~ ~~1~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act~~ a
settlement as a result of the final determination of any claim submitted in accordance with
§ 18–1917 of the Education Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act:

(1) may not be considered a contribution to the account for purposes of
provisions of law governing the Maryland income tax; and

(2) is exempt from State and local taxes.

SECTION ~~13.~~ 12. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the publisher of the
Annotated Code of Maryland, in consultation with and subject to the approval of the
Department of Legislative Services, shall correct, with no further action required by the
General Assembly, cross–references and terminology rendered incorrect by this Act. The
publisher shall adequately describe any correction that is made in an editor’s note following
the section affected.

SECTION 13. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section 1 of this Act shall
take effect June 1, 2023.

SECTION 14. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act is an emergency
measure, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health or safety, has
been passed by a yea and nay vote supported by three–fifths of all the members elected to
each of the two Houses of the General Assembly, and, except as provided in Section 13 of
this Act, shall take effect from the date it is enacted.

Approved by the Governor, April 24, 2023.

– 48 –