START OF PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 128

Chapter 128

(House Bill 22)

AN ACT concerning

Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services – Study on Location of
Individuals Prior to and Following Incarceration

FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services
to conduct a certain study examining certain data regarding an individual’s
residence prior to incarceration and on release from a State correctional facility; and
generally relating to State correctional facilities.

BY adding to
Article – Correctional Services
Section 9–618
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Correctional Services

9–618.

(A) ON OR BEFORE OCTOBER 1, 2026, AND EACH OCTOBER 1 THEREAFTER,
THE DEPARTMENT SHALL CONDUCT A STUDY ON THE LOCATION OF INDIVIDUALS
BEFORE AND FOLLOWING INCARCERATION IN A STATE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY
AND REPORT THE RESULTS OF THE STUDY TO THE SENATE JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS
COMMITTEE, THE SENATE BUDGET AND TAXATION COMMITTEE, THE HOUSE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE, AND THE HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE, IN
ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

(B) THE STUDY SHALL INCLUDE:

(1) DATA ON THE COUNTY OF RESIDENCE OF EACH INDIVIDUAL
RELEASED DURING THE PREVIOUS YEAR, AS REPORTED BY THE INDIVIDUAL ON
INTAKE TO THE FACILITY;

(2) DATA ON THE COUNTY OF RELEASE FOLLOWING INCARCERATION;

– 1 –
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
Ch. 128 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE TRANSFERRED FROM ONE STATE
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY TO ANOTHER PRIOR TO RELEASE, THE NUMBER OF DAYS
THAT THE TRANSFER OCCURRED BEFORE RELEASE; AND

(4) A COMPARISON OF:

(I) THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS RELEASED FROM A STATE
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY INTO THE SAME COUNTY IN WHICH THEY RESIDED PRIOR
TO INCARCERATION;

(II) THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS RELEASED FROM A STATE
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY INTO THE SAME COUNTY IN WHICH CONVICTION
OCCURRED; AND

(III) THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS RELEASED FROM A STATE
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY INTO THE COUNTY IN WHICH THEY WERE INCARCERATED
AT THE TIME OF RELEASE.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 22, 2025.

– 2 –
END OF PAGE 2