START OF PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

Chapter 198

(House Bill 15)

AN ACT concerning

Corporations and Associations – Limited Worker Cooperative Associations –
Authorization
(Maryland Limited Worker Cooperative Association Act)

FOR the purpose of authorizing the formation of limited worker cooperative associations;
establishing rules and procedures for the formation, governance, conversion, and
dissolution of limited worker cooperative associations; and generally relating to
limited worker cooperative associations.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Corporations and Associations
Section 1–101(a) and 1–203(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Corporations and Associations
Section 1–101(p), 1–203(b)(3) through (5) and (8), 1–401, 1–404, and 1–503(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Corporations and Associations
Section 1–502(g); and 4A–12A–01 through 4A–12A–22 to be under the new subtitle
“Subtitle 12A. Maryland Limited Worker Cooperative Association Act”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Insurance
Section 2–108
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Tax – General
Section 4–301(c), 9–314(f), 10–906(d), and 11–601(d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

– 1 –
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Corporations and Associations

1–101.

(a) In this article, unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following
words have the meanings indicated.

(p) “Governing document” means:

(1) The charter and the bylaws of a Maryland corporation or a foreign
corporation;

(2) The articles of organization or certificate of formation and the operating
agreement or limited liability company agreement of a domestic limited liability company
or a foreign limited liability company;

(3) The partnership agreement of an other entity that is a partnership or
limited partnership, any statement of partnership authority of a partnership, the certificate
of limited partnership of a limited partnership, and the certificate of limited liability
partnership of a limited liability partnership;

(4) The declaration of trust or governing instrument of a business trust or
a real estate investment trust; [or]

(5) THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION AND THE COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION; OR

[(5)] (6) A similar governing document or instrument of any other type of
entity.

1–203.

(a) In addition to any organization and capitalization fee required under § 1–204
of this subtitle, subject to subsection (c) of this section, the Department shall collect the fees
specified in subsection (b) of this section.

(b) (3) (i) For each of the following documents which are filed but not
recorded, the nonrefundable processing fee is as indicated:

Reservation of a corporate, limited partnership, limited liability partnership [or],
limited liability company, OR LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
name......................................................................................................................................$25

– 2 –
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

Original registration of name of a foreign corporation to end of calendar
year……...............................................................................................................................$100

Renewal of registration of name of a foreign corporation for 1 calendar year…….$100

Documents in connection with the qualification of a foreign corporation to do
intrastate business in this State………………………………………………………………...$100

Application for registration of a foreign limited partnership, a foreign limited
liability partnership, or a foreign limited liability company………………………………...$100

Other documents……………………………………………………………………………..$6

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (13) of this subsection, for each
of the following documents which are filed but not recorded, the filing fee is as indicated:

Annual report of a Maryland corporation, except a charitable or benevolent
institution, nonstock corporation, savings and loan corporation, credit union, family farm,
and banking institution…………………………………………………………………………..$300

Annual report of a foreign corporation subject to the jurisdiction of this State, except
a national banking association, savings and loan association, credit union, nonstock
corporation, and charitable and benevolent institution……..………………………………$300

Annual report of a Maryland savings and loan association, banking institution, or
credit union or of a foreign savings and loan association, national banking association, or
credit union that is subject to the jurisdiction of this State………………………………….$300

Annual report of a Maryland limited liability company, limited liability partnership,
limited partnership, OR LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, or of a foreign
limited liability company, foreign limited liability partnership, or foreign limited
partnership, except a family farm………………………………………………………………$300

Annual report of a business trust……………………………………………………….$300

Annual report of a real estate investment trust or foreign statutory trust doing
business in this State……………………………………………………………………………$300

Annual report of a family farm…………………………………………………………..$100

(4) For each of the following documents recorded or filed the nonrefundable
processing fee is $100:

(i) Certificate of limited partnership, certificate of limited liability
partnership, articles of organization of a limited liability company, ARTICLES OF
ORGANIZATION OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, certificate of

– 3 –
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

trust of a business trust, including certificates of amendment, certificates of reinstatement,
and articles of reinstatement; and

(ii) Any statement filed by a partnership under Title 9A of this
article.

(5) For issuing each of the following certificates, the nonrefundable
processing fee is as indicated:

Type of Instrument Special Fee

Certificate of status of a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability partnership, [or] limited liability company, OR LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION of this State or of a foreign corporation, foreign partnership, foreign limited
partnership, foreign limited liability partnership, or foreign limited liability company....$20

Certified list of the charter papers of a corporation of this State or any certificates of
a limited partnership, limited liability partnership, [or a] limited liability company, OR
LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION of this State recorded or filed with the
Department………………………………………………………………………………………….$20

Certificate of compliance by a foreign corporation, foreign limited partnership,
foreign limited liability partnership, or foreign limited liability company with requirements
of law in respect of qualification or registration………………………………………………..$20

Certificate of withdrawal of registration or qualification…………………………..…$20

Certificate of any paper recorded or filed in the Department’s office………………..$20

(8) Subject to § 1–203.2(c) of this subtitle, for processing each of the
following documents on an expedited basis, the additional fee is as indicated:

Recording any document, including financing statements, or submitting for
preclearance any document listed in paragraph (1) or (4) of this subsection, if processing
under § 1–203.2(b)(1) of this subtitle is requested............................................................. $425

Recording any document, including financing statements, or submitting for
preclearance any document listed in paragraph (1) or (4) of this subsection, if processing
under § 1– 203.2(b)(1) of this subtitle is not requested………………………………………...$50

Certificate of status of a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability partnership, [or] limited liability company, OR LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION, or a name reservation…………………………………………………..………$20

– 4 –
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

Certified list of the charter documents of a Maryland corporation or any certificate
of a Maryland limited partnership, limited liability partnership, [or] limited liability
company, OR LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION recorded or filed with the
Department...........................................................................................................................$20

A copy of any document recorded or filed with the Department, or a corporate
abstract………………………………………………………………………………………………$20

Application for a ground rent redemption or a ground rent extinguishment, or
payment of a redemption or extinguishment amount to the former owner of the ground
rent.........................................................................................................................................$50

1–401.

(a) Service of process on the resident agent of a corporation, partnership, limited
partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, or real estate investment trust, or any other person
constitutes effective service of process under the Maryland Rules on the corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company,
LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, or real estate investment trust, or other
person in any action, suit, or proceeding which is pending, filed, or instituted against it
under the provisions of this article.

(b) (1) Any notice required by law to be served by personal service on a
resident agent or other agent or officer of any Maryland or foreign corporation, partnership,
limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, or real estate investment trust required by
statute to have a resident agent in this State may be served on the corporation, partnership,
limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, or real estate investment trust in the manner
provided by the Maryland Rules relating to the service of process on corporations.

(2) Service under the Maryland Rules is equivalent to personal service on
a resident agent or other agent or officer of a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
limited liability partnership, limited liability company, LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION, or real estate investment trust mentioned in paragraph (1) of this
subsection.

1–404.

(a) Any person who owns, operates, or directs an unincorporated organization,
firm, association, or other entity which includes in its name the word “corporation”,
“incorporated”, or, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, “limited” or an
abbreviation of any of these words or which holds itself out to the public as a corporation is
guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to a fine not exceeding $500.

– 5 –
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) This section does not prohibit:

(1) A limited partnership from using the term “limited partnership” in its
name;

(2) A limited liability company from using the terms “limited liability
company” or “L.L.C.” in its name; [or]

(3) A limited liability partnership from using the terms “limited liability
partnership” or “L.L.P.” in its name; OR

(4) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION FROM USING
THE TERMS “LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION” OR “L.W.C.A.” IN ITS
NAME.

1–502.

(G) THE NAME OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MUST
INCLUDE:

(1) THE WORDS “LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION”;

(2) L.W.C.A.; OR

(3) LWCA.

1–503.

(a) An entity name may not contain language stating or implying that the entity
is organized for a purpose other than that allowed by the entity’s:

(1) Articles of incorporation, if the entity is a corporation;

(2) Articles of organization, if the entity is a limited liability company OR
LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION;

(3) Certificate of limited liability partnership, if the entity is a limited
liability partnership;

(4) Certificate of limited partnership, if the entity is a limited partnership;
or

(5) Articles of incorporation, if the entity is a professional corporation.

SUBTITLE 12A. MARYLAND LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION ACT.

– 6 –
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

4A–12A–01.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “ASSEMBLY” MEANS ALL MEMBERS OF A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION WHO HAVE VOTING RIGHTS UNDER THIS SUBTITLE AND
THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION’S COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

(C) “COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE” MEANS A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION THAT HAS ONLY ONE CLASS OF MEMBERS CONSISTING
OF WORKER MEMBERS WHO MANAGE ALL OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE ASSOCIATION.

(D) “COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT” MEANS THE OPERATING AGREEMENT OF
A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

(E) “FOREIGN WORKER COOPERATIVE” MEANS AN ENTITY FORMED UNDER
THE LAWS OF A STATE OTHER THAN THIS STATE THAT IS SIMILAR TO AN ENTITY
FORMED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE.

(F) “INVESTOR MEMBER” MEANS A MEMBER OF A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION WHO IS NOT REQUIRED OR PERMITTED TO CONDUCT
PATRONAGE WITH THE ASSOCIATION IN THE MEMBER’S CAPACITY AS AN INVESTOR
MEMBER IN ORDER TO RECEIVE OR RETAIN THE MEMBER’S INTEREST IN THE
ASSOCIATION.

(G) “LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION” MEANS A MARYLAND
LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY THAT ELECTS TO BE A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SUBTITLE.

(H) “PATRON MEMBER” MEANS A MEMBER OF A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION WHO IS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED TO CONDUCT
PATRONAGE WITH THE ASSOCIATION.

(I) “PATRONAGE” MEANS BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN A LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION AND A PERSON THAT ENTITLES THE PERSON
TO RECEIVE FINANCIAL RIGHTS BASED ON THE VALUE OR QUANTITY OF BUSINESS
BETWEEN THE ASSOCIATION AND THE PERSON.

(J) “REPRESENTATIVE” MEANS A PERSON SERVING ON THE BOARD OF
REPRESENTATIVES OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

– 7 –
END OF PAGE 7

START OF PAGE 8
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(K) “VOTING POWER” MEANS THE PROPORTION OF TOTAL VOTES ENTITLED
TO BE CAST ON A MATTER THAT ARE HELD BY A PARTICULAR MEMBER OR A GROUP
OR CLASS OF MEMBERS.

(L) “WORKER MEMBER” MEANS A PATRON MEMBER OF A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION WHO IS A NATURAL PERSON AND WHOSE PATRONAGE
CONSISTS OF OR INCLUDES LABOR CONTRIBUTED TO OR FOR THE ASSOCIATION.

4A–12A–02.

(A) THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SUBTITLE APPLY TO LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATIONS EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT:

(1) THE CONTEXT OF A PROVISION CLEARLY REQUIRES OTHERWISE;
OR

(2) A SPECIFIC PROVISION OF THIS TITLE PROVIDES OTHERWISE.

(B) THIS SUBTITLE APPLIES ONLY TO A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION.

(C) (1) THE EXISTENCE OF THIS SUBTITLE DOES NOT OF ITSELF CREATE
ANY IMPLICATION THAT A CONTRARY OR DIFFERENT RULE OF LAW IS OR WOULD BE
APPLICABLE TO A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY THAT IS NOT A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

(2) THIS SUBTITLE DOES NOT AFFECT ANY STATUTE OR RULE OF LAW
AS IT APPLIES TO A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY THAT IS NOT A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

(D) A PROVISION OF THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY NOT BE
INCONSISTENT WITH ANY PROVISION OF THIS SUBTITLE.

4A–12A–03.

UNLESS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS SUBTITLE, THE POLICY OF THIS
SUBTITLE IS TO GIVE MAXIMUM EFFECT TO THE PRINCIPLE OF DEMOCRATIC
SELF–MANAGEMENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION BY ITS
WORKER MEMBERS.

4A–12A–04.

– 8 –
END OF PAGE 8

START OF PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

(A) A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY MAY ELECT TO BE A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION UNDER THIS SUBTITLE BY INCLUDING IN ITS ARTICLES
OF ORGANIZATION A STATEMENT THAT THE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY IS A
LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

(B) A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY THAT HAS ELECTED TO BE A LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY FURTHER ELECT TO BE A COLLECTIVE
WORKER COOPERATIVE BY INCLUDING IN ITS ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION A
STATEMENT THAT IT IS A COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE.

(C) UNLESS THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION HAS
ELECTED TO BE A COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE, THE ARTICLES OF
ORGANIZATION OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SHALL INCLUDE
THE NAMES OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS WHO WILL SERVE AS REPRESENTATIVES UNTIL
THEIR SUCCESSORS ARE ELECTED AND QUALIFY.

(D) THE NAME OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SHALL
COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF TITLE 1, SUBTITLE 5 OF THIS ARTICLE.

4A–12A–05.

(A) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A COLLECTIVE WORKER
COOPERATIVE.

(B) AFTER A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS FORMED:

(1) IF INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES ARE NAMED IN THE ARTICLES OF
ORGANIZATION, THE INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES SHALL HOLD AN ORGANIZATIONAL
MEETING TO ADOPT THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT AND CARRY ON ANY OTHER
BUSINESS NECESSARY OR PROPER TO COMPLETE THE ORGANIZATION OF THE
ASSOCIATION; OR

(2) IF INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES ARE NOT NAMED IN THE ARTICLES
OF ORGANIZATION, THE PERSON WHO HAS CAUSED THE ARTICLES TO BE EXECUTED
AND FILED FOR RECORD SHALL DESIGNATE THE INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES AND
CALL A MEETING OF THE INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES TO ADOPT AN INITIAL
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT AND CARRY OUT ANY OTHER BUSINESS NECESSARY AND
PROPER TO COMPLETE THE ORGANIZATION OF THE ASSOCIATION.

(C) UNLESS PROVIDED OTHERWISE IN THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION,
THE INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES MAY CAUSE THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION TO ACCEPT MEMBERS.

– 9 –
END OF PAGE 9

START OF PAGE 10
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(D) INITIAL REPRESENTATIVES OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION NEED NOT BE MEMBERS OF THE ASSOCIATION.

(E) AN INITIAL REPRESENTATIVE SERVES UNTIL:

(1) A SUCCESSOR IS ELECTED AND QUALIFIES AT AN ASSEMBLY
MEETING; OR

(2) THE REPRESENTATIVE IS REMOVED.

4A–12A–06.

AFTER A COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE IS FORMED, THE INITIAL
WORKER MEMBERS SHALL HOLD AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING TO ADOPT THE
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT AND CONDUCT ANY OTHER BUSINESS NECESSARY OR
PROPER TO COMPLETE THE ORGANIZATION OF THE COLLECTIVE WORKER
COOPERATIVE.

4A–12A–07.

CLEAR REFERENCE TO THE FACT THAT A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY IS A
LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SHALL APPEAR PROMINENTLY:

(1) AT THE HEAD OF THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR AN
AMENDMENT MADE TO THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION IN WHICH THE ELECTION
TO BE A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS MADE;

(2) AT THE HEAD OF EACH SUBSEQUENT ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION
OF THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION; AND

(3) ON EACH CERTIFICATE REPRESENTING OUTSTANDING
MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS IN THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

4A–12A–08.

(A) SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (B) OF THIS SECTION, A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY TERMINATE ITS STATUS AS A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION BY AMENDING ITS ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION TO
DELETE THE STATEMENTS REQUIRED BY § 4A–12A–04 OF THIS SUBTITLE.

(B) ANY TERMINATION OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION’S STATUS SHALL BE SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF TWO–THIRDS OF

– 10 –
END OF PAGE 10

START OF PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

THE VOTING POWER OF WORKER MEMBERS AND TWO–THIRDS OF ALL MEMBERS
ENTITLED TO VOTE ON THE MATTER.

4A–12A–09.

(A) THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION SHALL INCLUDE:

(1) A STATEMENT OF THE CAPITAL STRUCTURE OF THE ASSOCIATION;

(2) THE CLASSES OR OTHER TYPES OF MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS AND
RELATIVE RIGHTS, PREFERENCES, AND RESTRICTIONS GRANTED TO OR IMPOSED
ON EACH CLASS OR OTHER TYPE OF MEMBERSHIP INTEREST, INCLUDING:

(I) A STATEMENT CONCERNING:

1. THE MANNER IN WHICH PROFITS AND LOSSES ARE
ALLOCATED AND DISTRIBUTIONS ARE MADE AMONG MEMBERS; AND

2. IF INVESTOR MEMBERS ARE AUTHORIZED, THE
MANNER IN WHICH PROFITS AND LOSSES ARE ALLOCATED AND DISTRIBUTIONS ARE
MADE AMONG INVESTOR MEMBERS; AND

(II) A STATEMENT DESIGNATING VOTING AND OTHER
GOVERNANCE RIGHTS OF EACH CLASS OR OTHER TYPE OF MEMBERSHIP INTEREST,
INCLUDING WHICH MEMBERS HAVE VOTING POWER AND ANY RESTRICTIONS ON
VOTING POWER;

(3) A STATEMENT OF THE METHOD OF ADMISSION OF MEMBERS;

(4) A STATEMENT THAT A MEMBERSHIP INTEREST IS TRANSFERABLE,
IF IT IS TO BE TRANSFERABLE, AND A STATEMENT OF THE CONDITIONS UNDER
WHICH IT MAY BE TRANSFERRED;

(5) A STATEMENT CONCERNING WHETHER AND HOW PERSONS THAT
ARE NOT MEMBERS BUT CONDUCT BUSINESS WITH THE ASSOCIATION MAY BE
ALLOWED TO SHARE IN ALLOCATIONS OF PROFITS AND LOSSES AND RECEIVE
DISTRIBUTIONS;

(6) A STATEMENT OF THE NUMBER AND TERMS OF
REPRESENTATIVES OR THE METHOD BY WHICH THE NUMBER AND TERMS ARE
DETERMINED;

(7) A STATEMENT ADDRESSING MEMBERS’ CONTRIBUTIONS; AND
– 11 –
END OF PAGE 11

START OF PAGE 12
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(8) A STATEMENT ON WHETHER THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION WILL ELECT TO BE TAXED AS A PARTNERSHIP OR A CORPORATION FOR
FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAX PURPOSES THAT INCLUDES AN EXPLANATION OF
THE TAX IMPLICATIONS OF THE ELECTION FOR THE WORKER MEMBERS.

(B) THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION MAY CONTAIN ANY PROVISION FOR MANAGING AND REGULATING THE
AFFAIRS OF THE ASSOCIATION NOT INCONSISTENT WITH ITS ARTICLES OF
ORGANIZATION OR THIS TITLE.

(C) A PERSON THAT BECOMES A MEMBER OF A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS DEEMED TO ASSENT TO THE COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT OF THE ASSOCIATION.

(D) THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION MAY BE ENTERED INTO BEFORE, AFTER, OR AT THE TIME OF FILING
OF ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION AND MAY BE MADE EFFECTIVE AS OF:

(1) THE TIME OF FORMATION OF THE ASSOCIATION; OR

(2) THE TIME OR DATE PROVIDED IN THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

4A–12A–10.

(A) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY INCLUDE
MULTIPLE CLASSES OF MEMBERS WHOSE RIGHTS AND MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS
SHALL BE DETERMINED BY THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

(B) TO BEGIN BUSINESS, A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
MUST HAVE AT LEAST THREE WORKER MEMBERS UNLESS THE SOLE MEMBER IS A
LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

(C) A PERSON BECOMES A MEMBER OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION:

(1) AS PROVIDED IN THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT;

(2) AS THE RESULT OF A MERGER UNDER SUBTITLE 7 OF THIS TITLE;

– 12 –
END OF PAGE 12

START OF PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

(3) AS A RESULT OF A CONVERSION UNDER THIS ARTICLE, IN WHICH
ANOTHER ENTITY ELECTS TO BE A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
UNDER THIS SUBTITLE; OR

(4) WITH THE CONSENT OF ALL OF THE WORKER MEMBERS.

(D) A MEMBER MAY NOT ACT FOR OR BIND THE LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SOLELY BY REASON OF BEING A MEMBER.

(E) UNLESS THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION PROVIDE OTHERWISE, A
DEBT, AN OBLIGATION, OR ANY OTHER LIABILITY OF A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS SOLELY THAT OF THE ASSOCIATION AND IS NOT THE
DEBT, OBLIGATION, OR LIABILITY OF A MEMBER.

(F) (1) THE ORGANIZATION OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION UNDER THIS SUBTITLE DOES NOT CREATE A PRESUMPTION THAT
WORKER MEMBERS ARE EMPLOYEES OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR ANY PURPOSE.

(2) IF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS TAXED AS A
PARTNERSHIP FOR FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAX PURPOSES, THAT FACT MAY
NOT BE CONSTRUED TO REQUIRE THAT A WORKER MEMBER BE CONSIDERED AN
EMPLOYEE UNDER ANY STATE LAW.

4A–12A–11.

(A) IN THIS SECTION, “ACTUAL PAYROLL VALUE” MEANS THE TOTAL
AMOUNT OF MONEY PAID TO AN EMPLOYEE AFTER TAXES AND DEDUCTIONS AND
INCLUDES THE BASE SALARY, BONUSES, OVERTIME, LEAVE BENEFITS,
COMMISSIONS, AND TIPS.

(A) (B) AN INSURER, AS DEFINED IN § 1–101 OF THE INSURANCE
ARTICLE, THAT PROVIDES WORKERS’ COMPENSATION INSURANCE TO MEMBERS OF
A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION FORMED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE
SHALL CALCULATE PREMIUMS FOR MEMBERS WHO ARE COVERED EMPLOYEES:

(1) IN ACCORDANCE WITH TITLE 11, SUBTITLE 3 AND TITLE 19,
SUBTITLE 4 OF THE INSURANCE ARTICLE; AND

(2) BASED ON THE COVERED EMPLOYEE’S ACTUAL PAYROLL VALUE.

(B) (C) (1) THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMMISSIONER MAY SHALL
ENFORCE THIS SECTION.

– 13 –
END OF PAGE 13

START OF PAGE 14
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) ALL HEARINGS, ORDERS, AND APPEALS ARISING UNDER THIS
SECTION SHALL BE GOVERNED BY TITLE 11, SUBTITLE 5 OF THE INSURANCE
~~ARTICLE.~~

(D) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO PROHIBIT A LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION FROM ACQUIRING OTHER FORMS OF
INSURANCE.

4A–12A–12.

(A) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SHALL HAVE AN
ASSEMBLY AS CONSTITUTED BY THE BODY OF ALL VOTING MEMBERS.

(B) AN INDIVIDUAL IS NOT AN AGENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION SOLELY BY BEING A MEMBER OF THE ASSEMBLY.

(C) A DEBT, AN OBLIGATION, OR ANY OTHER LIABILITY OF A LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS SOLELY THAT OF THE ASSOCIATION AND IS
NOT A DEBT, AN OBLIGATION, OR A LIABILITY OF A MEMBER OF THE ASSEMBLY
SOLELY BY REASON OF BEING A VOTING MEMBER.

4A–12A–13.

(A) THE ASSEMBLY SHALL MEET ANNUALLY AT A TIME:

(1) PROVIDED IN THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT; OR

(2) SET BY THE BOARD OF REPRESENTATIVES THAT IS CONSISTENT
WITH THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

(B) EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT,
MEMBERS MAY ATTEND OR CONDUCT THE ANNUAL ASSEMBLY MEETING THROUGH
ANY MEANS OF COMMUNICATION IF ALL MEMBERS ATTENDING THE MEETING ARE
ABLE TO COMMUNICATE WITH EACH OTHER DURING THE MEETING.

(C) THE BOARD OF REPRESENTATIVES SHALL REPORT, OR CAUSE TO BE
REPORTED, AT THE ANNUAL ASSEMBLY MEETING THE ASSOCIATION’S BUSINESS
AND FINANCIAL CONDITION AS OF THE CLOSE OF THE MOST RECENT FISCAL YEAR.

(D) EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT,
THE BOARD OF REPRESENTATIVES SHALL DESIGNATE THE PRESIDING OFFICER OF
THE ANNUAL ASSEMBLY MEETING.

– 14 –
END OF PAGE 14

START OF PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

(E) FAILURE TO HOLD AN ANNUAL ASSEMBLY MEETING DOES NOT AFFECT
THE VALIDITY OF ANY ACTION TAKEN BY THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION.

(F) (1) SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION, A LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SHALL NOTIFY EACH MEMBER OF THE TIME,
DATE, AND PLACE OF A MEETING OF THE MEMBERS AT LEAST 10 AND NOT MORE
THAN 60 DAYS BEFORE THE ANNUAL ASSEMBLY MEETING.

(2) IF THE NOTICE IS OF A MEETING OF THE MEMBERS IN ONE OR
MORE CLASSES OF MEMBERS, THE NOTICE SHALL BE GIVEN ONLY TO MEMBERS IN
THOSE CLASSES.

4A–12A–14.

(A) (1) A SPECIAL MEETING OF THE ASSEMBLY MAY BE CALLED ONLY:

(I) AS PROVIDED FOR IN THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT;

(II) BY A MAJORITY OF VOTES OF THE BOARD OF
REPRESENTATIVES ON A PROPOSAL STATING THE PURPOSE OF THE SPECIAL
MEETING; OR

(III) BY DEMAND IN A RECORD SIGNED BY MEMBERS HOLDING
AT LEAST 20% OF THE VOTING POWER OF THE PERSONS ENTITLED TO VOTE ON THE
MATTER THAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THE SPECIAL MEETING.

(2) A DEMAND UNDER PARAGRAPH (1)(III) OF THIS SUBSECTION
SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO:

(I) THE OFFICER OF THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION CHARGED WITH KEEPING THE RECORDS OF THE ASSOCIATION; OR

(II) IF NO OFFICER HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH KEEPING THE
RECORDS OF THE ASSOCIATION, A REPRESENTATIVE.

(3) ANY VOTING MEMBER MAY WITHDRAW THE MEMBER’S DEMAND
UNDER PARAGRAPH (1)(III) OF THIS SUBSECTION BEFORE RECEIPT BY THE LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION OF DEMANDS SUFFICIENT TO REQUIRE A
SPECIAL MEETING OF THE ASSEMBLY.

(B) EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT,
MEMBERS MAY ATTEND OR CONDUCT THE SPECIAL ASSEMBLY MEETING THROUGH
– 15 –
END OF PAGE 15

START OF PAGE 16
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

ANY MEANS OF COMMUNICATION IF ALL MEMBERS ATTENDING THE MEETING ARE
ABLE TO COMMUNICATE WITH EACH OTHER DURING THE MEETING.

(C) ONLY BUSINESS WITHIN THE PURPOSES STATED IN THE NOTICE OF
SPECIAL MEETING MAY BE CONDUCTED AT THE MEETING.

(D) EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT,
THE PRESIDING OFFICER OF A SPECIAL MEETING SHALL BE DESIGNATED BY THE
BOARD OF REPRESENTATIVES.

4A–12A–15.

(A) THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT MAY
ALLOCATE VOTING POWER AMONG MEMBERS ON THE BASIS OF ONE OR MORE OF
THE FOLLOWING:

(1) ONE MEMBER, ONE VOTE;

(2) IF A MEMBER IS A COOPERATIVE, THE NUMBER OF ITS MEMBERS;
OR

(3) SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (B) OF THIS SECTION, USE OR
PATRONAGE.

(B) IF VOTING POWER IS ALLOCATED ON THE BASIS OF USE OR PATRONAGE
AND A WORKER MEMBER WOULD BE DENIED A VOTE BECAUSE THE WORKER
MEMBER DID NOT USE THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION OR
CONDUCT PATRONAGE WITH IT, THE WORKER MEMBER SHALL BE ALLOCATED A
VOTE EQUAL TO AT LEAST THE MINIMUM VOTING POWER ALLOCATED TO WORKER
MEMBERS WHO USED THE ASSOCIATION OR CONDUCTED PATRONAGE WITH IT.

(C) THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT MAY
PROVIDE FOR THE ALLOCATION OF MEMBER VOTING POWER BY CLASS.

(D) INVESTOR MEMBERS ARE NOT ENTITLED TO VOTE UNLESS THE
ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT PROVIDES OTHERWISE.

(E) (1) THIS SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY WHERE THIS TITLE OR THE
ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT REQUIRE A HIGHER
VOTING THRESHOLD THAN IS REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION.

(2) NOTWITHSTANDING ANY PROVISION OF THE ARTICLES OF
ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT, ALL REPRESENTATIVES SHALL BE

– 16 –
END OF PAGE 16

START OF PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

ELECTED AND ALL OTHER DECISIONS WITHIN THE AUTHORITY OF THE ASSEMBLY
SHALL BE MADE BY A MAJORITY VOTE OF:

(I) THE WORKER MEMBERS OF THE ASSOCIATION; AND

(II) THE VOTING POWER OF MEMBERS ENTITLED TO VOTE ON
THE ELECTION OR DECISION.

4A–12A–16.

(A) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A COLLECTIVE WORKER
COOPERATIVE.

(B) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SHALL HAVE A BOARD
OF REPRESENTATIVES CONSISTING OF AT LEAST THREE INDIVIDUALS.

(C) (1) THE AFFAIRS OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
SHALL BE MANAGED BY THE BOARD OF REPRESENTATIVES OR INDIVIDUALS TO
WHOM THE BOARD DELEGATES SUCH DUTIES.

(2) THE BOARD OF REPRESENTATIVES MAY ADOPT POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES CONSISTENT WITH THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION, THE
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT, OR THIS TITLE.

(D) AN INDIVIDUAL IS NOT AN AGENT OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION SOLELY BY BEING A REPRESENTATIVE.

(E) A DEBT, AN OBLIGATION, OR ANY OTHER LIABILITY OF A LIMITED
WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS SOLELY THAT OF THE ASSOCIATION AND IS
NOT A DEBT, AN OBLIGATION, OR A LIABILITY OF A REPRESENTATIVE SOLELY BY
REASON OF BEING A REPRESENTATIVE.

(F) REPRESENTATIVES SHALL BE ELECTED FOR TERMS DETERMINED BY
THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

4A–12A–17.

(A) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS DISSOLVED AND
SHALL COMMENCE THE WINDING UP OF ITS AFFAIRS ON THE FIRST TO OCCUR OF
THE FOLLOWING:

(1) AT THE TIME OR ON THE HAPPENING OF THE EVENTS SPECIFIED
IN THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT;

– 17 –
END OF PAGE 17

START OF PAGE 18
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) UNLESS A HIGHER THRESHOLD IS STATED IN THE COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT, AT THE TIME SPECIFIED BY:

(I) A TWO–THIRDS VOTE OF THE WORKER MEMBERS; AND

(II) A TWO–THIRDS VOTE OF THE VOTING POWER OF ALL
MEMBERS OF THE ASSEMBLY;

(3) AT THE TIME OF THE ENTRY OF A DECREE OF JUDICIAL
DISSOLUTION UNDER § 4A–903 OF THIS TITLE; OR

(4) UNLESS OTHERWISE AGREED OR AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION
(B) OF THIS SECTION, AT THE TIME THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION HAS HAD NO MEMBERS FOR A PERIOD OF 90 CONSECUTIVE DAYS.

(B) (1) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY NOT BE
DISSOLVED OR REQUIRED TO WIND UP ITS AFFAIRS IF WITHIN 90 DAYS AFTER THERE
ARE NO REMAINING MEMBERS OF THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION OR WITHIN THE PERIOD OF TIME PROVIDED IN THE COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT:

(I) THE LAST REMAINING MEMBER’S SUCCESSOR OR ASSIGNEE
AGREES IN WRITING TO CONTINUE THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION AND TO BE ADMITTED AS A MEMBER OR TO APPOINT A DESIGNEE AS A
MEMBER TO BE EFFECTIVE AS OF THE TIME THE LAST REMAINING MEMBER CEASED
TO BE A MEMBER; OR

(II) A MEMBER IS ADMITTED TO THE LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IN THE MANNER SET FORTH IN THE COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT TO BE EFFECTIVE AS OF THE TIME THE LAST REMAINING MEMBER
CEASED TO BE A MEMBER UNDER A PROVISION IN THE COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT
THAT PROVIDES FOR THE ADMISSION OF A MEMBER AFTER THERE ARE NO
REMAINING MEMBERS.

(2) IF A NEW MEMBER IS NOT ADMITTED TO THE LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS
SUBSECTION, AND THE LAST REMAINING MEMBER CEASED TO BE A MEMBER UNDER
§ 4A–606(5) OF THIS TITLE, THE LAST REMAINING MEMBER’S PERSONAL
REPRESENTATIVE OR GUARDIAN SHALL AUTOMATICALLY BE ADMITTED AS A NEW
MEMBER OF THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, EFFECTIVE
IMMEDIATELY ON THE HAPPENING OF THE EVENT DESCRIBED IN § 4A–606(5) OF
THIS TITLE, UNLESS WITHIN 90 DAYS AFTER THE PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OR

– 18 –
END OF PAGE 18

START OF PAGE 19
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

GUARDIAN FIRST HAS KNOWLEDGE OF THE EVENT, THE PERSONAL
REPRESENTATIVE OR GUARDIAN:

(I) RENOUNCES THAT ADMISSION IN WRITING; OR

(II) DESIGNATES A PERSON TO BECOME A NEW MEMBER, AND
THE DESIGNEE ACCEPTS THE DESIGNEE’S ADMISSION IN WRITING OR BY
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION TO THE PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OR GUARDIAN.

(C) A COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT MAY PROVIDE THAT THE LAST REMAINING
MEMBER’S PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE, GUARDIAN, SUCCESSOR, OR ASSIGNEE
SHALL BE OBLIGATED TO AGREE IN WRITING TO CONTINUE THE LIMITED LIABILITY
COMPANY AND TO BE ADMITTED AS A MEMBER OR TO APPOINT A DESIGNEE AS A
MEMBER TO BE EFFECTIVE AS OF THE TIME THE LAST REMAINING MEMBER CEASED
TO BE A MEMBER.

(D) UNLESS OTHERWISE AGREED AND SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF
SUBSECTIONS (A)(4) AND (B) OF THIS SECTION, THE TERMINATION OF A PERSON’S
MEMBERSHIP MAY NOT CAUSE A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION TO
BE DISSOLVED OR TO WIND UP ITS AFFAIRS AND THE LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION SHALL CONTINUE IN EXISTENCE FOLLOWING THE
TERMINATION OF A PERSON’S MEMBERSHIP.

4A–12A–18.

IF A MEMBER DIES, THE DECEASED MEMBER’S PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE
MAY EXERCISE, FOR THE PURPOSE OF SETTLING THE ESTATE, THE RIGHTS THE
DECEASED MEMBER WAS ENTITLED TO UNDER § 4A–406 OF THIS TITLE.

4A–12A–19.

(A) (1) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION,
THE PROFITS AND LOSSES OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
SHALL BE APPORTIONED AND DISTRIBUTED IN THE MANNER SPECIFIED BY THE
ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

(2) PROFITS DECLARED AS PATRONAGE ALLOCATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO A PERIOD OF TIME AND PAID OR CREDITED TO PATRON MEMBERS
SHALL BE APPORTIONED AMONG THE PATRON MEMBERS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
RATIO OF EACH PATRON MEMBER’S PATRONAGE DURING THE APPLICABLE TIME
PERIOD TO THE TOTAL PATRONAGE BY ALL PATRON MEMBERS DURING THAT
PERIOD.

– 19 –
END OF PAGE 19

START OF PAGE 20
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) THE APPORTIONMENT, DISTRIBUTION, AND PAYMENT OF NET
EARNINGS OF THE LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY BE IN CASH,
CREDITS, OR WRITTEN NOTICES OF ALLOCATION ISSUED BY THE ASSOCIATION.

4A–12A–20.

(A) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY ESTABLISH,
THROUGH THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT, A
SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CAPITAL ACCOUNTS TO REFLECT THE BOOK VALUE AND TO
DETERMINE THE REDEMPTION PRICE OF MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS AND WRITTEN
NOTICES OF ALLOCATION.

(B) THE ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION OR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT:

(1) MAY ALLOW THE PERIODIC REDEMPTION OF WRITTEN NOTICES
OF ALLOCATION; AND

(2) SHALL PROVIDE FOR RECALL AND REDEMPTION OF MEMBERSHIP
INTERESTS ON TERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP IN THE LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION.

(C) (1) A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION MAY ALLOCATE
A PORTION OF RETAINED NET EARNINGS AND NET LOSSES TO A COLLECTIVE
RESERVE ACCOUNT.

(2) EARNINGS OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
ASSIGNED TO A COLLECTIVE RESERVE ACCOUNT MAY BE USED FOR ANY PURPOSE
DETERMINED BY:

(I) IN THE CASE OF A COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE, THE
MEMBERS; OR

(II) IN THE CASE OF A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE
ASSOCIATION OTHER THAN A COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE, THE BOARD OF
REPRESENTATIVES.

4A–12A–21.

(A) ANY MEMBERSHIP INTEREST, PATRONAGE REFUND, PER UNIT RETAIN
CERTIFICATE, EQUITY INSTRUMENT, OR EVIDENCE OF MEMBERSHIP INTEREST
ISSUED, OFFERED, OR SOLD BY A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION IS
EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF TITLE 11 OF THIS ARTICLE.

– 20 –
END OF PAGE 20

START OF PAGE 21
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

(B) ANY MEMBERSHIP INTEREST, PATRONAGE REFUND, PER UNIT RETAIN
CERTIFICATE, EQUITY INSTRUMENT, OR EVIDENCE OF MEMBERSHIP INTEREST MAY
BE LAWFULLY OFFERED AND SOLD BY THE ISSUER OR ITS MEMBERS,
REPRESENTATIVES, OR SALARIED EMPLOYEES WITHOUT THE NECESSITY OF BEING
REGISTERED AS A BROKER OR DEALER UNDER TITLE 11 OF THIS ARTICLE.

4A–12A–22.

A FOREIGN WORKER COOPERATIVE MAY REGISTER AND DO BUSINESS IN THE
STATE SUBJECT TO AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SUBTITLE 10
OF THIS TITLE.

Article – Insurance

2–108.

In addition to any powers and duties set forth elsewhere by the laws of the State, the
Commissioner:

(1) has the powers and authority expressly conferred on the Commissioner
by or reasonably implied from this article;

(2) shall enforce this article;

(3) shall perform the duties imposed on the Commissioner by this article;

(4) in addition to examinations and investigations expressly authorized,
may conduct examinations and investigations of insurance matters as necessary to fulfill
the purposes of this article; [and]

(5) shall enforce § 15–103(b)(21)(vi) of the Health – General Article; AND

(6) SHALL ENFORCE § 4A–12A–11 OF THE CORPORATIONS AND
ASSOCIATIONS ARTICLE.

Article – Tax – General

4–301.

(c) If a limited liability company, INCLUDING A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION OR COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE, or limited
liability partnership, including a limited partnership registered as a limited liability
limited partnership, is required to pay the admissions and amusement tax, personal
liability for the tax and interest and penalties on the tax extends to any person who

– 21 –
END OF PAGE 21

START OF PAGE 22
Ch. 198 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

exercises direct control over the fiscal management of the limited liability company or
limited liability partnership.

9–314.

(f) If a limited liability company, INCLUDING A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION OR COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE, or limited
liability partnership, including a limited partnership registered as a limited liability
limited partnership, is required to pay the motor fuel tax and interest and penalties on the
tax, personal liability for the tax and interest and penalties on the tax extends to any person
who exercises direct control over the fiscal management of the limited liability company or
limited liability partnership.

10–906.

(d) If an employer or payor negligently fails to withhold or to pay income tax in
accordance with subsection (a) of this section, personal liability for that income tax extends:

(1) to the employer or payor;

(2) if the employer or payor is a corporation, to:

(i) any officer of the corporation who exercises direct control over its
fiscal management; or

(ii) any agent of the corporation who is required to withhold and pay
the income tax; and

(3) if the employer or payor is a limited liability company as defined under
Title 4A of the Corporations and Associations Article, INCLUDING A LIMITED WORKER
COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION OR A COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE, or a limited
liability partnership as defined under Title 9A of the Corporations and Associations Article,
including a limited partnership registered as a limited liability limited partnership, to:

(i) any person who exercises direct control over its fiscal
management; and

(ii) any agent of the limited liability company or limited liability
partnership who is required to withhold and pay the income tax.

11–601.

(d) If a buyer or vendor liable for the sales and use tax and for the interest and
penalties of the tax under subsection (c) of this section is a corporation or limited liability
company, INCLUDING A LIMITED WORKER COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION OR A
COLLECTIVE WORKER COOPERATIVE, or limited liability partnership (including a

– 22 –
END OF PAGE 22

START OF PAGE 23
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 198

limited partnership registered as a limited liability limited partnership), personal liability
for the sales and use tax and for the interest and penalties of the tax extends to:

(1) in the case of a corporation:

(i) the president, vice president, or treasurer of the corporation; and

(ii) any officer of the corporation who directly or indirectly owns
more than 20% of the stock of the corporation; [and]

(2) in the case of a limited liability company:

(i) if the limited liability company does not have an operating
agreement, all members; or

(ii) if the limited liability company has an operating agreement,
those individuals who manage the business and affairs of the limited liability company; and

(3) in the case of a limited liability partnership:

(i) if the limited liability partnership does not have a written
partnership agreement, all general partners; or

(ii) if the limited liability partnership has a written partnership
agreement, those individuals who manage the business and affairs of the limited liability
partnership.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That a presently existing obligation
or contract right may not be impaired in any way by this Act.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2026.

Approved by the Governor, April 22, 2025.

– 23 –
END OF PAGE 23