PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 3

J2 5lr1115
(PRE–FILED) CF SB 47

By: Delegate Bagnall
Requested: October 4, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Health and Government Operations

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 11, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 State Board of Physical Therapy Examiners – Revisions

3 FOR the purpose of clarifying the definition of “physical therapist assistant” as used in the
4 Maryland Physical Therapy Act; altering the membership of the State Board of
5 Physical Therapy Examiners; requiring the Board to send renewal notices to
6 licensees by electronic means, rather than first–class mail, unless the licensee
7 requests to receive the renewal notice by first–class mail; and generally relating to
8 the State Board of Physical Therapy Examiners.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Article – Health Occupations
11 Section 13–101(a) and 13–311(a)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
15 Article – Health Occupations
16 Section 13–101(g), 13–202(a)(1) through (3) and (c), and 13–311(b)
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

19 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
20 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0003*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 3

1 Article – Health Occupations

2 13–101.

3 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

STATE4 (g) “Physical therapist assistant” means an individual LICENSED BY THE
BOARD PHYSICAL THERAPY EXAMINERS5 who practices limited physical therapy andOF
6 who has passed the national physical therapy licensing examination administered or
7 accepted by the Board.

8 13–202.

[8] 99 (a) (1) The Board consists of members.

[8] 910 (2) Of the Board members:

11 (i) Five shall be licensed physical therapists, of which a minimum
12 of four shall be engaged primarily in the clinical practice of physical therapy in this State;

[One] TWO [a] [assistant]13 (ii) shall be licensed physical therapist
14 practicing limited physical therapy in this State; andASSISTANTS

15 (iii) Two shall be consumer members.

16 (3) The Governor shall appoint the licensed physical therapist members
[member]17 and the licensed physical therapist assistant MEMBERS, with the advice of the
18 Secretary, from a list of names of qualified individuals submitted to the Secretary and the
19 Governor by the American Physical Therapy Association of Maryland. The number of
20 names on the list shall be at least three times the number of vacancies.

[The] EACH21 (c) licensed physical therapist assistant member shall:

22 (1) Have 5 years’ experience in limited physical therapy; and

23 (2) Be engaged in the profession of limited physical therapy in this State.

24 13–311.

25 (a) (1) A license expires on the date set by the Board, unless the license is
26 renewed for an additional term as provided in this section.

27 (2) A license may not be renewed for a term longer than 2 years.

28 (b) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, at least 1 month
[first–class mail]29 before the license expires, the Board shall send to the licensee, by

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 3 3

E–MAIL1 to the last known address of the licensee, a renewal noticeELECTRONIC MEANS
2 that states:

3 (i) The date on which the current license expires;

4 (ii) The date by which the renewal application must be received by
[and mailed]5 the Board for the renewal to be issued before the license expires; and

6 (iii) The amount of the renewal fee.

licensee[,7 (2) If requested by a licensee, the Board shall send to the at least
expires,] [electronic means]8 two times within the month before a license a renewal notice by
FIRST–CLASS [electronic mail]9 to the last known address of the licensee.MAIL

[(2)] (1)10 (3) If a renewal notice sent by electronic means under paragraph
11 of this subsection is returned to the Board as undeliverable, the Board shall send to the
12 licensee a renewal notice by first–class mail to the last known address of the licensee.

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
14 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.