PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 99

A2 (5lr1470)
ENROLLED BILL
— Economic Matters/Finance —
Introduced by Delegate Rogers

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Anne Arundel County – Class A (Off–Sale) and Class D (Off–Sale) Licenses
3 – Population Ratio Quota

4 FOR the purpose of establishing a population ratio quota for certain Class A (off–sale) and
5 Class D (off–sale) licenses in Anne Arundel County; specifying a certain official map
6 to be used to identify certain tax assessment districts for purposes of the population
7 ratio quota; prohibiting the Board of License Commissioners for Anne Arundel
8 County from approving the transfer of certain alcoholic beverages licenses under
9 certain circumstances; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Anne
10 Arundel County.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
12 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
13 Section 11–102
14 Annotated Code of Maryland

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0099*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 99

1 (2024 Replacement Volume)

2 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
3 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
4 Section 11–1602
5 Annotated Code of Maryland
6 (2024 Replacement Volume)

7 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
8 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

9 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

10 11–102.

11 This title applies only in Anne Arundel County.

12 11–1602.

district:13 (a) In this section, “assessment district” means a tax assessment

(1) [through law];14 established by the county local AND

(2) COUNTY15 SHOWN ON THE OFFICIAL MAP ADOPTED BY THE
COUNCIL “TAX ASSESSMENT DISTRICTS, 2005”.16 TITLED

[The] SUBJECT (C) SECTION,17 (b) Board mayTO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
18 issue a Class A (off–sale), Class B (off–sale), or Class D (off–sale) license based on its
19 determination of whether the license is necessary to accommodate the public.

[In determination,] IF CLASS A20 (c) making its THE APPLICATION IS FOR A
(OFF–SALE) CLASS D (OFF–SALE) LICENSE, [may21 the Board consider whether theOR
in]22 establishment for which the license would be issued is MAY NOT ISSUE THE LICENSE
23 IF:

24 (1) THE ESTABLISHMENT FOR WHICH THE LICENSE WOULD BE ISSUED
25 an assessment district in which the ratio of off–sale licenses per individualIS LOCATED IN
[is than] [per] ~~3,750~~ 3,50026 more one ~~4,000~~ individuals; orEXCEEDS FOR EVERY

[an27 (2) assessment district in which the ratio of off–sale licenses per
individuals]28 individual is less than one per 4,000 THE ISSUANCE OF THE LICENSE
OFF–SALE29 WOULD CAUSE THE RATIO OF LICENSES PER INDIVIDUAL IN AN
~~4,000~~ ~~3,750~~ 3,50030 INDIVIDUALS.ASSESSMENT DISTRICT TO EXCEED ONE FOR EVERY

(D) SUBSECTION (C) APPLY:31 OF THIS SECTION DOES NOT

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 99 3

(1)1 TO THE TRANSFER OR RENEWAL OF A LICENSE THAT WAS ISSUED
JULY 1, 2025;2 ON OR BEFORE ~~OR~~

(2) 6TH DISTRICT;3 IN THE TAX ASSESSMENT OR

(3) ON–SITE4 TO AN APPLICATION FOR AN CONSUMPTION PERMIT
§ 2–207 CLASS 55 UNDER OF THIS ARTICLE BY AN APPLICANT THAT HOLDS A
LICENSE.6 BREWERY

(E) THE7 POPULATION OF EACH ASSESSMENT DISTRICT IS TO BE
BY:8 DETERMINED

(1) CENSUS;9 THE LATEST FEDERAL OR

(2) ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY OFFICE10 ESTIMATES PREPARED BY THE
PLANNING ZONING.11 OF AND

(F) THE BOARD CLASS A12 MAY NOT APPROVE THE TRANSFER OF A
(OFF–SALE) CLASS D (OFF–SALE) LICENSE:13 LICENSE OR

(1)14 TO A LOCATION OUTSIDE THE ASSESSMENT DISTRICT IN WHICH
JULY 1, 2025;15 THE LICENSE WAS LOCATED ON OR

(2) JULY 1, 2025,16 IF THE LICENSE WAS NOT IN EXISTENCE AS OF TO A
17 LOCATION OUTSIDE THE ASSESSMENT DISTRICT IN WHICH THE LICENSE WAS
ISSUED.18 ORIGINALLY

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
20 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 3 years and 6 months and, at the end of
21 December 31, 2028, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall
22 be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.