START OF PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 517

Chapter 517

(House Bill 4)

AN ACT concerning

Restrictions on Use – Solar Collector Systems – Alteration

FOR the purpose of prohibiting a restriction on use regarding land use that increases the
cost of installing a solar collector system by at least a certain percentage over a
certain cost or that reduces the efficiency of the solar collector system by at least a
certain percentage under a certain level of energy generation; authorizing a
community association to prohibit the installation of a solar collector system in the
common area or common elements within the real estate development served by the
community association; authorizing a community association to impose reasonable
restrictions on the installation of a solar collector system in the common area or
common elements; authorizing a community association to install a solar collector
system in the common area or common elements provided the installation is not
otherwise prohibited by applicable law; and generally relating to regulation of solar
collector systems.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Real Property
Section 2–119
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Real Property

2–119.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Restriction on use” includes any covenant, restriction, or condition
contained in:

(i) A deed;

(ii) A declaration;

(iii) A contract;

(iv) The bylaws or rules of a condominium or homeowners
association;
– 1 –
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
Ch. 517 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(v) A security instrument; or

(vi) Any other instrument affecting:

1. The transfer or sale of real property; or

2. Any other interest in real property.

(3) “Solar collector system” means a solar collector or other solar energy
device, the primary purpose of which is to provide for the collection, storage, and
distribution of solar energy for electricity generation, space heating, space cooling, or water
heating.

(4) “Solar easement” means an interest in land that:

(i) Is conveyed or assigned in perpetuity; and

(ii) Limits the use of the land to preserve the receipt of sunlight
across the land for the use of a property owner’s solar collector system.

(b) (1) A restriction on use regarding land use may not impose or act to impose
unreasonable limitations on the installation of a solar collector system on the roof or
exterior walls of improvements, provided that the property owner owns or has the right to
exclusive use of the roof or exterior walls.

(2) For purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection, [an unreasonable
limitation includes a limitation that:

(i) Significantly increases the cost of the solar collector system; or

(ii) Significantly decreases the efficiency of the solar collector
system] A RESTRICTION ON USE IS UNREASONABLE IF APPLICATION OF THE
RESTRICTION ON USE TO A PARTICULAR PROPOSAL:

(I) INCREASES THE INSTALLATION COST OF THE SOLAR
COLLECTOR SYSTEM BY AT LEAST 5% OVER THE PROJECTED COST OF THE INITIALLY
PROPOSED INSTALLATION; OR

(II) REDUCES THE ENERGY GENERATED BY THE SOLAR
COLLECTOR SYSTEM BY AT LEAST 10% BELOW THE PROJECTED ENERGY
GENERATION OF THE INITIALLY PROPOSED INSTALLATION.

(3) (I) THE OWNER SHALL PROVIDE DOCUMENTATION THAT IS
SATISFACTORY TO THE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION TO SHOW THAT THE RESTRICTION

– 2 –
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 517

IS UNREASONABLE UNDER PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION.

(II) THE DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH
(I) OF THIS PARAGRAPH SHALL BE PREPARED BY AN INDEPENDENT SOLAR PANEL
DESIGN SPECIALIST WHO:

1. IS CERTIFIED BY THE NORTH AMERICAN BOARD OF
CERTIFIED ENERGY PRACTITIONERS; OR

2. HAS ATTESTED BY AFFIDAVIT TO DESIGNING AT
LEAST 30 SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEMS IN THE COURSE OF TRADE WITHIN THE PRIOR
3 YEARS.

(4) (I) A COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION MAY PROHIBIT OR RESTRICT
THE INSTALLATION OF A SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEM IN THE COMMON AREA OR
COMMON ELEMENTS WITHIN THE REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT SERVED BY THE
ASSOCIATION.

(II) A COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION MAY ESTABLISH REASONABLE
RESTRICTIONS AS TO THE NUMBER, SIZE, PLACE, OR MANNER OF PLACEMENT OR
INSTALLATION OF A SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEM INSTALLED IN THE COMMON AREA
OR COMMON ELEMENTS.

(III) NOTWITHSTANDING THE PROVISIONS OF THE GOVERNING
DOCUMENTS AND PROVIDED THAT THE INSTALLATION IS NOT OTHERWISE
PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A COMMUNITY
ASSOCIATION SHALL HAVE DISCRETION TO INSTALL A SOLAR COLLECTOR SYSTEM
IN THE COMMON AREA OR COMMON ELEMENTS WITHIN THE REAL ESTATE
DEVELOPMENT SERVED BY THE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION.

(c) (1) A property owner who has installed or intends to install a solar collector
system may negotiate to obtain a solar easement in writing.

(2) Any written instrument creating a solar easement shall include:

(i) A description of the dimensions of the solar easement expressed
in measurable terms, including vertical or horizontal angles measured in degrees or the
hours of the day on specified dates when direct sunlight to a specified surface of a solar
collector system may not be obstructed;

(ii) The restrictions placed on vegetation, structures, and other
objects that would impair the passage of sunlight through the solar easement; and

(iii) The terms under which the solar easement may be revised or
terminated.
– 3 –
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
Ch. 517 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) A written instrument creating a solar easement shall be recorded in the
land records of the county where the property is located.

(d) This section does not apply to a restriction on use on historic property that is
listed in, or determined by the Director of the Maryland Historical Trust to be eligible for
inclusion in, the Maryland Register of Historic Properties.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, May 13, 2025.

– 4 –
END OF PAGE 4