START OF PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 496

Chapter 496

(House Bill 9)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Food System Resiliency Council – Definitions and Reports

FOR the purpose of defining “healthy food priority areas” and “wasted food” as they relate
to the Food System Resiliency Council; repealing certain outdated reporting
requirements and altering certain ongoing reporting requirements; and generally
relating to the Food System Resiliency Council.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 14–1101
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)
(As enacted by Chapter 49 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 14–1102(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 14–1103
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

14–1101.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Council” means the Maryland Food System Resiliency Council.

(c) “Food council organization” means a local food council organization that is
established in the State.

– 1 –
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
Ch. 496 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(d) “HEALTHY FOOD PRIORITY AREAS” MEANS PREDOMINANTLY
LOWER–INCOME AREAS THAT HAVE LIMITED ACCESS TO RETAIL OUTLETS THAT
SELL AFFORDABLE, HEALTHY FOODS.

(E) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Emergency Management.

(F) “WASTED FOOD” MEANS FOOD NOT USED FOR ITS INTENDED PURPOSE
THAT IS MANAGED IN A VARIETY OF WAYS, INCLUDING:

(1) DONATIONS TO FEED PEOPLE;

(2) THE CREATION OF ANIMAL FEED;

(3) COMPOSTING;

(4) ANAEROBIC DIGESTION; OR

(5) DISPOSAL IN LANDFILLS OR COMBUSTION FACILITIES.

14–1102.

(a) There is a Maryland Food System Resiliency Council in the Office of Resilience
in the Department.

14–1103.

(a) The Council shall:

(1) meet regularly for a period of at least 2 years to address food insecurity
in the State; and

(2) work toward the following goals:

(i) to address the food insecurity crisis in the State resulting from
the COVID–19 pandemic and resulting economic crisis by:

1. coordinating State and local level food insecurity services
to support residents of the State;

2. tracking and analyzing data to create a comprehensive
map of food insecurity across the State and identify the gaps in service;

3. leveraging federal and private sector grants and other
resources in order to address food insecurity needs;

– 2 –
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 496

4. advising the State on how best to allocate resources and
increase efficiency; and

5. A. exploring the role of and potential for the federal
Community Eligibility Provision to ensure all students in the State are fed; and

B. making recommendations to the Maryland State
Department of Education and the Maryland General Assembly to implement relevant
findings under item A of this item;

(ii) to develop[, on or before November 1, 2021,] equity and
sustainability policy recommendations to increase the long–term resiliency of the food
system, including:

1. addressing and eliminating racial inequities in the food
system;

2. addressing and eliminating diet–related public health
disparities;

3. addressing and eliminating [food deserts] LIMITED FOOD
OPTIONS AND FOOD SCARCITY THAT EXIST IN HEALTHY FOOD PRIORITY AREAS; and

4. reducing WASTED food [waste], increasing recycling, and
encouraging other relevant environmental impacts;

5. IN URBAN, SUBURBAN, AND RURAL SETTINGS,
INCREASING THE QUANTITY, QUALITY AGGREGATION, MARKETING, AND
DISTRIBUTION OF LOCAL FOOD;

6. INCREASING THE PROCUREMENT OF LOCAL FOOD
THROUGH SCHOOLS, INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION, NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS, AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS;

7. CREATING ADDITIONAL MARKET OPPORTUNITIES
FOR MARYLAND FOOD BUSINESSES; AND

8. EXPANDING ACCESS TO SMALL SCALE
MANUFACTURING AND FOOD PRODUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE; AND

(iii) to expand the impact of existing food council organizations by:

1. providing coordination and facilitation of knowledge
exchange at the State level; and

– 3 –
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
Ch. 496 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

2. supporting identification and application of grants to
operating funds to support existing and new food council organizations as needed; ~~and~~

(iv) to develop[, on or before November 1, 2021,] AND
PERIODICALLY UPDATE a strategic plan to increase the production and procurement of
~~Maryland~~ ~~certified~~ ~~food,~~ ~~including:~~

~~1.~~ ~~increasing~~ ~~the~~ ~~quality~~ ~~and~~ ~~quantity~~ ~~of~~ ~~production,~~ ~~as~~ ~~well~~
~~as~~ ~~aggregation,~~ ~~marketing,~~ ~~and~~ ~~distribution~~ ~~of~~ ~~local~~ ~~food~~ ~~in~~ ~~urban,~~ ~~suburban,~~ ~~and~~ ~~rural~~
~~settings;~~

~~2.~~ ~~increasing~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~of~~ ~~local~~ ~~food~~ ~~through~~ ~~schools,~~
~~universities,~~ ~~and~~ ~~other~~ ~~institutions;~~

~~3.~~ ~~creating~~ ~~additional~~ ~~market~~ ~~opportunities~~ ~~for~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~food~~ ~~businesses;~~ ~~and~~

~~4.~~ ~~expanding~~ ~~access~~ ~~to~~ ~~small~~ ~~scale~~ ~~manufacturing~~ ~~and~~ ~~food~~
~~production~~ ~~infrastructure.~~

(b) To advance the goals of the Council, the Council shall engage and collaborate
with interested stakeholders, including:

(1) residents of the State with lived experience of food insecurity; and

(2) food council organizations and similar local level food system convening
organizations.

(c) [(1) On or before November 1, 2021, the Council shall submit an interim
report to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government
Article, on key findings and activities undertaken by the Council.

(2) On or before November 1, 2022 the Council shall submit a report to the
General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, on the
Council’s recommendations for a long term structure for a statewide food policy council
including providing recommendations on:

(i) appropriate policy and legislative changes;

(ii) potential ways to restructure the Council such as:

1. placing the Council within a different agency or
organization; and

2. enacting a sunset provision for the Council; and

– 4 –
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 496

(iii) any other recommendations of the Council.

(3)] On or before November 1, 2023, and each year thereafter, the Council
shall submit a report to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
Government Article, on key findings, APPROPRIATE POLICY AND LEGISLATIVE
CHANGES, and activities undertaken by the Council.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, May 13, 2025.

– 5 –
END OF PAGE 5