PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 71

F1 5lr1417
HB 71/24 – W&M (PRE–FILED)

By: Delegate Edelson
Requested: October 28, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 8, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Education – Holocaust Education Assistance Grant Program – Established

3 FOR the purpose of establishing the Holocaust Education Assistance Grant Program in the
4 State Department of Education to assist local school systems with Holocaust
5 education in public schools; and generally relating to the establishment of the
6 Holocaust Education Assistance Grant Program.

7 BY adding to
8 Article – Education
9 Section 7–136
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Education

7–136.15

(A) IN SECTION, “PROGRAM” HOLOCAUST EDUCATION16 THIS MEANS THE
ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM.17

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0071*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 71

(B) (1) THERE HOLOCAUST EDUCATION ASSISTANCE GRANT1 IS A
PROGRAM STATE.2 IN THE

(2) THE PROGRAM3 PURPOSE OF THE IS TO ASSIST LOCAL SCHOOL
HOLOCAUST SCHOOLS.4 SYSTEMS WITH EDUCATION IN PUBLIC

(C) A DEPARTMENT5 LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM MAY APPLY TO THE FOR A
PROGRAM.6 GRANT FROM THE

(D) A7 LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM MAY USE A GRANT ONLY FOR
HOLOCAUST–RELATED:8

(1) TEACHER TRAINING;9 OR

(2) TEACHING MATERIALS.10

(E) ~~(1)~~ THE GOVERNOR11 SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL
~~$500,000~~ $50,000 PROGRAM.12 AN APPROPRIATION OF FOR THE

~~(2)~~ ~~NO~~ ~~$50,000~~13 ~~LOCAL~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~SYSTEM~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~RECEIVE~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~YEAR.~~14 ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~GRANT~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~FISCAL~~

15 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
16 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.