PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 75

Chapter 75

(House Bill 73)

AN ACT concerning

State Finance and Procurement – State Leasing of Real Property

FOR the purpose of increasing the noncompetitive threshold for State leases of real
property; altering the time frame and platform for advertising a need of the State to
rent building space; and generally relating to the leasing of real property for State
use.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 4–318(5) and 4–320
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 13–101(a) and (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Finance and Procurement

4–318.

This Part III of this subtitle does not apply to:

[less 2,500](5) lease transactions involving than 5,000 square feetUP TO
of property.

4–320.

IN SECTION, “EMARYLAND MARKETPLACE”(a) THIS HAS THE MEANING
§ 13–101 ARTICLE.STATED IN OF THIS

(B) The Department shall advertise any need of the State to rent building space
[30] 20at least days before proposals for a lease are due.

[(b)] (C) leasing:The Department shall advertise the proposed

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 75 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) ~~[in~~ daily or weekly newspapers with circulation sufficient to provide
notice:

State,~~(1)~~ to the people of the OR AT LEAST TO THE PEOPLE OF THE
LOCALITY; ~~or~~AFFECTED AND

~~locality]~~(2) ~~at~~ ~~least~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~people~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~affected~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PEOPLE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~STATE,~~ ~~LOCALITY,~~~~OR~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PEOPLE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AFFECTED~~ ~~AND~~ ~~POTENTIAL~~
DEPARTMENT’S~~BIDDERS~~ BY POSTING A PUBLICATION ON THE WEBSITE AND
EMARYLAND MARKETPLACE.

[(c)] (D) The advertisement shall contain:

(1) the number of square feet proposed to be leased; and

(2) the general area in which the State desires to lease the space.

13–101.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(c) “eMaryland Marketplace” or “eMaryland Marketplace Advantage” means the
Internet–based procurement system managed by the Department of General Services.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 2 –