PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 146

N2 5lr1554
(PRE–FILED) CF SB 126

By: Delegate Cardin
Requested: October 31, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Estates and Trusts – Resignation of Trustee – Notice

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing the trustee of a trust to resign under the Maryland Trust
4 Act on certain notice; and generally relating to the resignation of trustees.

5 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
6 Article – Estates and Trusts
7 Section 14.5–705
8 Annotated Code of Maryland
9 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

10 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
11 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

12 Article – Estates and Trusts

13 14.5–705.

[with]:14 (a) A trustee may resign

(1) ON 30 DAYS’ TO:15 AT LEAST NOTICE

(I) THE BENEFICIARIES;16 QUALIFIED

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0146*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 146

(II) THE SETTLOR, LIVING;1 IF

(III) ALL COTRUSTEES;2 AND

(IV) ANY3 PERSON THAT HAS A RIGHT TO REPLACE OR APPOINT A
TRUSTEE;4 SUCCESSOR TO THE RESIGNING OR

(2) WITH5 the approval of the court.

6 (b) In approving a resignation of a trustee, the court may issue orders and impose
7 conditions reasonably necessary for the protection of the trust property.

8 (c) Liability of a resigning trustee or of a surety on the bond of the trustee for acts
9 or omissions of the trustee is not discharged or affected by the resignation of the trustee.

10 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
11 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.