PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 39

Chapter 39

(House Bill 104)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Farms and Families Fund – Purpose and Use – Alterations

FOR the purpose of altering the purpose and use of the Maryland Farms and Families
Fund; and generally relating to the Maryland Farms and Families Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Agriculture
Section 1–101(a) and (g), 10–2001, and 10–2002
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Agriculture
Section 10–2003 and 10–2004
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Agriculture

1–101.

(a) In this article the following words have the meanings indicated.

(g) “Person” includes the State, any county, municipal corporation or other
political subdivision of the State, or any of their units, or an individual, receiver, trustee,
guardian, executor, administrator, fiduciary, or representative of any kind, or any
partnership, firm, association, public or private corporation, or any other entity, unless
otherwise provided.

10–2001.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “FMNP” means the federal Farmers Market Nutrition Program.

(c) “Fund” means the Maryland Farms and Families Fund.

(d) “Program” means the Maryland Farms and Families Program.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 39 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(e) “SNAP” means the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.

(f) “WIC” means the federal Special Supplemental Food Program for Women,
Infants, and Children.

10–2002.

(a) There is a Maryland Farms and Families Program in the Department.

(b) The purpose of the Program is to double the purchasing power of food–insecure
Maryland residents with limited access to fresh fruits and vegetables and to increase
revenue for farmers through redemption of federal nutrition benefits at Maryland farmers
markets.

10–2003.

(a) There is a Maryland Farms and Families Fund.

[to grants](b) The purpose of the Fund is provide to:

[Nonprofit match] MATCH(1) organizations that purchases made with
FMNP, SNAP, and WIC benefits at participating farmers markets and farm stands;

[Nonprofit] SUPPORT(2) farmers markets to implement theNONPROFIT
[at markets]Program the farmers BY PROVIDING LOGISTICAL AND MARKETING
SUPPORT TO INCREASE THE USE OF FEDERAL NUTRITION PROGRAMS AT THESE
MARKETS; andFARMERS

[Local] SUPPORT(3) nonprofit organizations AND OTHER RESPONSIBLE
to implement the Program in partnership with one or more participating localPERSONS
farmers markets.

(c) The Secretary shall administer the Fund.

(d) (1) The Fund is a special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to § 7–302 of
the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(2) The State Treasurer shall hold the Fund separately, and the
Comptroller shall account for the Fund.

(e) The Fund consists of:

(1) Money appropriated in the State budget to the Fund; and

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 39

(2) Any other money from any other source accepted for the benefit of the
Fund.

DEPARTMENT(f) (1) In accordance with this subsection, theTHE MAY USE
[shall grants]Fund be used to provide FOR EITHER ONE OR BOTH OF THE FOLLOWING
PURPOSES:

[Nonprofit that:] TO IMPLEMENT,(i) organizations IN WHOLE OR
PART, PROGRAM DEPARTMENT;IN THE WITHIN THE AND

[1. Meet the qualifications established in § 10–2004 of this
subtitle; and

2. Distribute the grant money to farmers markets and local
subtitle;]nonprofit organizations in accordance with this

[Nonprofit(ii) farmers markets to implement the Program at the
and] TOfarmers markets; PROVIDE FUNDS TO A QUALIFIED NONPROFIT
IMPLEMENT,ORGANIZATION OR OTHER RESPONSIBLE PERSON TO IN WHOLE OR IN
PART, PROGRAM.THE

[(iii) Local nonprofit organizations to implement the Program in
markets.]partnership with one or more local farmers

[a(2) A qualified nonprofit organization that receivesOR OTHER PERSON
grant] under this section:FUNDS

[grant](i) Shall distribute at least 60% of the money it receives
directly to participating farmers markets as funding for local market access coordinators
and matching dollars for purchases made with FMNP, SNAP, and WIC benefits; and

[grant](ii) May not use more than 40% of the money it receives for
Program development, promotion and outreach, farmers market training and capacity
building, technical assistance, program data collection, evaluation, administration, and
reporting.

(g) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Governor shall include
in the annual budget bill an appropriation to the Fund as follows:

(i) For fiscal years 2021 through 2023, $100,000; and

(ii) For fiscal year 2024 and each fiscal year thereafter, $300,000.

(2) The appropriation required under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall
[Marketingbe in addition to, and may not supplant, any funding appropriated to the and

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 39 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Division] AGRICULTURE SEAFOOD MARKETING PROGRAMPromotion in theAND
Department.

10–2004.

[a(a) (1) A nonprofit organization is qualified to receiveOR OTHER PERSON
grant] in accordance with this subtitle if the Department determines that theFUNDS
[nonprofit] organization has a demonstrated record of:OR PERSON

(i) Designing and implementing successful healthy food incentive
programs that connect federal food benefits recipients with local producers;

(ii) Implementing funds distributing and reporting processes;

(iii) Providing training and technical assistance to farmers markets;

(iv) Conducting community outreach and data collection, including
customer surveys; and

(v) Providing a full accounting and administration of funds
distributed to farmers markets.

(2) In addition to the requirements under paragraph (1) of this subsection,
[a grant]in awarding in accordance with this subtitle, the Department mayFUNDS
[nonprofit]consider whether the organization has a demonstrated record ofOR PERSON
providing services in healthy food priority areas.

[grant cycle] [a(b) Within 90 days after the end of a YEAR, qualifiedCALENDAR
nonprofit] [a grant]organization that received in accordance withAN OR PERSON FUNDS
this subtitle shall submit a report to the Department that includes the following
information:

(1) The names and locations of Maryland farmers markets that received
funds under the Program;

(2) The dollar amount of funds awarded to each participating farmers
market;

(3) The dollar amount of FMNP, SNAP, and WIC benefits, and funds
provided under the Program that were spent at participating farmers markets, as well as
any unspent funds;

(4) The number of FMNP, SNAP, and WIC transactions carried out at
participating farmers markets; and

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 39

(5) The impact of the Program on increasing the quantity of fresh fruits
and vegetables consumed by FMNP, SNAP, and WIC families, as determined by customer
surveys.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 5 –