PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 185

O4, F5 (5lr0900)
ENROLLED BILL
— Ways and Means and Appropriations/Budget and Taxation —
Introduced by Delegates Mireku–North, Atterbeary, Foley, Kaufman, Miller,
Solomon, Terrasa, and Vogel

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Therapeutic Child Care Grant Program – Funding – Alterations

3 FOR the purpose of altering the fiscal years during which the Governor is required to
4 include in the annual budget bill a certain appropriation to the Therapeutic Child
5 Care Grant Program; ~~repealing~~ ~~specific~~ ~~distributions~~ ~~to~~ ~~providers~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~
6 ~~Program;~~ and generally relating to funding for the Therapeutic Child Care Grant
7 Program.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
9 Article – Education
10 Section 8–420(a) through (c)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0185*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 185

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Education
3 Section 8–420(d)
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
7 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

8 Article – Education

9 8–420.

10 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

11 (2) “Developmental delays, physical disabilities, or delays in social,
12 emotional, or behavioral functioning” means:

13 (i) A significant developmental delay or atypical development, as
14 identified by a health professional, in:

15 1. Cognitive development;

16 2. Physical development;

17 3. Language and speech development;

18 4. Psychosocial development; or

19 5. Self–help skills;

20 (ii) Psychological trauma, as identified through an evaluation by a
21 mental health professional; or

22 (iii) A diagnosed physical, developmental, or mental health condition
23 that impacts daily living and limits participation in typical early childhood education or
24 child care settings.

25 (3) “Program” means the Therapeutic Child Care Grant Program.

26 (b) There is a Therapeutic Child Care Grant Program in the State.

27 (c) (1) The purpose of the Program is to provide grants to providers that
28 specialize in providing child care and early childhood education to children under the age
29 of 6 years who have developmental delays, physical disabilities, or delays in social,
30 emotional, or behavioral functioning.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 185 3

1 (2) The Department shall administer the Program.

2 (3) On or before August 15 each year, the Department shall award grants
3 under this section.

4 (d) (1) For each of fiscal years 2023 through 2025, AND FOR EACH OF FISCAL
2027 2029, ~~2027~~5 YEARS THROUGH ~~AND~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~
~~THEREAFTER,~~6 the Governor shall include in the annual budget bill an appropriation of
7 $3,700,000 to the Program.

8 ~~(2)~~ ~~In~~ ~~awarding~~ ~~grants~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~Program,~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~shall~~
9 ~~distribute:~~

10 ~~(i)~~ ~~$1,283,000~~ ~~to~~ ~~existing~~ ~~providers~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~same~~ ~~amount~~ ~~as~~ ~~was~~
11 ~~provided~~ ~~in~~ ~~fiscal~~ ~~year~~ ~~2022;~~

12 ~~(ii)~~ ~~$1,917,000~~ ~~to~~ ~~existing~~ ~~providers~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~same~~ ~~proportion~~ ~~as~~ ~~was~~
13 ~~provided~~ ~~in~~ ~~fiscal~~ ~~year~~ ~~2022~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~additional~~ ~~services;~~ ~~and~~

14 ~~(iii)~~ ~~Except~~ ~~as~~ ~~provided~~ ~~in~~ ~~paragraph~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subsection,~~ ~~$500,000~~
15 ~~to~~ ~~new~~ ~~providers~~ ~~or~~ ~~existing~~ ~~providers~~ ~~to~~ ~~enroll~~ ~~additional~~ ~~children.~~

16 ~~(3)~~ ~~If~~ ~~funds~~ ~~are~~ ~~remaining~~ ~~after~~ ~~the~~ ~~distribution~~ ~~required~~ ~~under~~ ~~paragraph~~
17 ~~(2)(iii)~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subsection,~~ ~~then~~ ~~the~~ ~~remainder~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~distributed~~ ~~as~~ ~~provided~~ ~~under~~
~~FOR~~ ~~2027~~ ~~2029,~~18 ~~paragraph~~ ~~(2)(ii)~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subsection~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEARS~~ ~~THROUGH~~
~~GOVERNOR~~19 ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~
~~$1,500,000~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~20 ~~OF~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

21 (2) In awarding grants under the Program, the Department shall distribute:

22 (i) $1,283,000 to existing providers in the same amount as was
23 provided in fiscal year 2022;

24 (ii) $1,917,000 to existing providers in the same proportion as was
25 provided in fiscal year 2022 to provide additional services; and

26 (iii) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, $500,000
27 to new providers or existing providers to enroll additional children.

28 (3) If funds are remaining after the distribution required under paragraph
29 (2)(iii) of this subsection, then the remainder shall be distributed as provided under
30 paragraph (2)(ii) of this subsection.

31 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
32 1, 2025.