PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 226

F3 5lr1546
(PRE–FILED) CF SB 569

By: Delegate Bagnall
Requested: October 31, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Anne Arundel County – Public Schools – School Schedule Options

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing the Anne Arundel County Board of Education to operate
4 ~~certain~~ schools within the county using a certain school scheduling model that is
5 exempt from a certain requirement under certain circumstances; requiring a school
6 operating under a certain scheduling model to provide certain employees an
7 opportunity to make up lost wages; requiring the Anne Arundel County Board of
8 Education to report to the State Department of Education and the General Assembly
9 on any schools operating under an alternative scheduling model; and generally
10 relating to public school scheduling models and the Anne Arundel County Board of
11 Education.

12 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
13 Article – Education
14 Section 7–103(a), (f), and (g)
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

17 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
18 Article – Education
19 Section 7–103(b), (d), and (e)
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0226*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 226

1 BY adding to
2 Article – Education
3 Section 7–103(f)
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
7 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

8 Article – Education

9 7–103.

[and] (f), (G)10 (a) Except as provided in subsections (b), (e), of this section,AND
11 each public school under the jurisdiction of a county board:

12 (1) (i) Shall be open for pupil attendance for at least 180 actual school
13 days and a minimum of 1,080 school hours during a 10–month period in each school year;
14 or

15 (ii) If normal school attendance is prevented because of conditions
16 described in subsection (b) of this section, shall be open for at least 1,080 hours during a
17 10–month period;

18 (2) Shall be open for pupil attendance a minimum of 3 hours during each
19 school day; and

20 (3) May not be open on Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays in order to meet
21 the 180–day or 1,080–hour requirement of this subsection.

22 (b) (1) If a county board submits a written application to the State Board that
23 describes a demonstrated effort by the county board to comply with subsection (a) of this
24 section, the State Board may permit:

25 (i) The following adjustments:

26 1. An increase in the length of the school year; or

27 2. A decrease in the length of the school year;

28 (ii) Exceptions from the requirement that the school year be
29 completed within a 10–month period;

30 (iii) Adjustments in the length of the school day; and

31 (iv) Schools to be open on holidays.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 226 3

1 (2) These adjustments may be granted only if normal school attendance is
2 prevented because of:

3 (i) Natural disaster;

4 (ii) Civil disaster; or

5 (iii) Severe weather conditions.

6 (3) Education funding from State or local sources may not be reduced if
7 there are less than 180 school days in any year because of an approved application under
8 paragraph (1)(i)2 of this subsection.

9 (4) In case of emergency, the State Board may open schools on holidays.

10 (d) Except as provided in subsection (e) of this section, the State Board shall
11 divide the school year into the terms it considers appropriate.

12 (e) (1) The county boards of Allegany, Anne Arundel, Calvert, Howard,
13 Montgomery, and Prince George’s counties, and the Board of School Commissioners of
14 Baltimore City, may elect to operate one or more schools within the county or Baltimore
15 City on a year–round basis, provided that the 180–day and the minimum hour
16 requirements under this section are met.

17 (2) Nothing in this section precludes a county board from conducting a
18 year–round pilot study or program that is funded by the county board.

(F) (1) ~~THE~~ IN SUBSECTION, “MINIMAL ATTENDANCE”19 THIS HOURS OF
20 MEANS THE MINIMUM HOURS OF ATTENDANCE FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR REQUIRED
COMAR 13A.03.02.12, JULY 1, 2025.21 UNDER IN EFFECT ON

(2) SUBJECT SUBSECTION,22 TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS THE
ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY BOARD EDUCATION23 OF MAY ELECT TO OPERATE ~~ONE~~ ~~OR~~
24 ~~MORE~~ ALL OF THE SCHOOLS WITHIN THE COUNTY USING A SCHEDULING MODEL
18025 THAT ELIMINATES EARLY DISMISSAL DAYS TO ALLOW FOR LESS THAN SCHOOL
~~1,080–HOUR~~26 DAYS IF THE ~~MINIMUM~~ ~~REQUIREMENT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~IS~~
MET.27 MINIMAL HOURS OF ATTENDANCE ARE

(3) IF ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY BOARD EDUCATION28 THE OF ELECTS
29 TO USE A SCHEDULING MODEL THAT ELIMINATES EARLY DISMISSAL DAYS IN
SUBSECTION,30 ACCORDANCE WITH THIS THE COUNTY BOARD MUST USE THE
COUNTY.31 SCHEDULING MODEL FOR ALL SCHOOLS IN THE

(4) IF ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY BOARD EDUCATION32 THE OF USES A
33 SCHEDULING MODEL THAT RESULTS IN A SCHOOL IN THE COUNTY BEING OPEN FOR
180 DAYS,34 LESS THAN THE COUNTY BOARD SHALL OFFER SCHOOL EMPLOYEES WHO

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 226

1 RECEIVE PAY AT AN HOURLY RATE AN OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE UP THE LOST WAGES
YEAR.2 THROUGH OTHER DUTIES BEFORE THE BEGINNING OF THE NEXT SCHOOL

[(f)] (G)3 Publicly funded half–day prekindergarten programs are not subject to
4 the requirements of subsection (a) of this section.

[(g)] (H)5 Notwithstanding any other law and subject only to this section, each
6 county board annually shall set the start and end dates of the school year for schools in the
7 county.

8 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

9 (a) On or before June 30, 2026, and on or before June 30, 2027, the Anne Arundel
10 County Board of Education shall report to the State Board of Education and, in accordance
11 with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, to the General Assembly on the operation
12 of schools during the preceding school year that used an alternative scheduling model in
13 accordance with Section 1 of this Act.

14 (b) The reports required under this section shall include a summary of each day
15 a school operating under an alternative scheduling model was open and the number of
16 hours per day that the school was open with students in attendance.

17 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
18 July 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 2 years and, at the end of June 30,
19 2027, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated
20 and of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.