PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 43

Chapter 43

(House Bill 262)

AN ACT concerning

Department of Agriculture – Maryland Agricultural Commission and Young
Farmers

FOR the purpose of altering the membership of the Maryland Agricultural Commission;
establishing the Committee on Young Farmers for certain purposes, including to
communicate to the Maryland Agricultural Commission on certain matters relating
to young farmers in the State; repealing the provisions of law establishing and
governing the Young Farmers Advisory Board; and generally relating to the
Maryland Agricultural Commission and young farmers in the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–201, 2–202, ~~and~~ 2–203(a) and (c), and 2–503(a)(1)(ii)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–206
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–503(a)(1)(iii)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–1001 through 2–1005 and the subtitle “Subtitle 10. Young Farmers
Advisory Board”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Agriculture

2–201.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 43 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) IN SUBTITLE, “COMMISSION” MARYLANDTHIS MEANS THE
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION § 2–202 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(B) It is the intent of the General Assembly in the enactment of this subtitle to
provide for a broadened representation in policy determinations with regard to agricultural
matters in the State.

2–202.

(A) There is a Maryland Agricultural Commission in the Department.

(B) [It] THE COMMISSION shall formulate and make proposals for the
advancement of Maryland agriculture by serving as an advisory body to the Secretary on
matters pertaining to agriculture.

2–203.

[has members.] OF:(a) The Commission 31 CONSISTS

(1) One member is ex officio and is the principal administrativeWHO
official for agricultural affairs at the University System of Maryland as designated by the
University[.];Chancellor of the AND

(2) [Governor follows]The appoints the remaining 30 members as
GOVERNOR:FOLLOWING MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE

[(1)] (I) [Two representing] ONEfrom a list of at least four nominees
the dairy industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(2)] (II) [Two representing] ONEfrom a list of at least four nominees
the poultry industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(3)] (III) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the livestock industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(4) One from a list of at least two nominees representing the tobacco
industry;]

[(5)] (IV) [Two representing] ONEfrom a list of at least four nominees
[nursery] NURSERY, LANDSCAPE,theREPRESENTATIVE OF AND GREENHOUSE
industry;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 43

[(6)] (V) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
[horticulture]the industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF FRUIT

[(7)] (VI) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the field crops industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(8)] (VII) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the vegetable industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(9)] (VIII) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the veterinary profession;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(10)] (IX) [from nominees]One a list of at least two ofREPRESENTATIVE
the Maryland State Grange;

[(11)] (X) [from nominees]One a list of at least two ofREPRESENTATIVE
the Maryland Farm Bureau;

[(12)] (XI) [Two from] ONEwithout nomination appointed at large
services related to agriculture;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(13)] (XII) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the turf industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(14)] (XIII) [fromOne a list of at least two nominees representing the
horse–breeding] industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF THE EQUINE

[(15)] (XIV) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the food processing industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(16)] (XV) [without from]One nomination appointed at large
the general public to be the consumer member;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(17)] (XVI) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the organic farming industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(18)] (XVII) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
direct farm marketing;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(19)] (XVIII) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
viticulture;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(20)] (XIX) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
agriculture education in primary or secondary schools;REPRESENTATIVE OF

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 43 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(21)] (XX) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
agri–business;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(22)] (XXI) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the forestry industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(23)] (XXII) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
the aquaculture industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(24)] (XXIII) [fromOne a list of at least two nominees representing
agri–tourism] VALUE–ADDEDREPRESENTATIVE OF AGRICULTURE AND
AGRITOURISM;

[(25)] (XXIV) [from representing]One a list of two nominees
[and]the biofuel industry;REPRESENTATIVE OF

[(26)] (XXV) [from representing]One a list of at least two nominees
industry;the hempREPRESENTATIVE OF

(XXVI) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE CONTROLLED
INDUSTRY;ENVIRONMENTAL AGRICULTURE

(XXVII) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF SOCIALLY
FARMERS;DISADVANTAGED

(XXVIII) ONE FARMERS;REPRESENTATIVE OF VETERAN

(XXIX) ONE COMMITTEEREPRESENTATIVE OF THE ON
YOUNG FARMERS;

(XXX) ONE FARMERS;REPRESENTATIVE OF URBAN AND SMALL
AND

(XXXI) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF NEW AND BEGINNING
FARMERS.

(1)(c) The term of membership is 3 years.

(2) [MembersA person may not serve more than two consecutive terms. of
the Commission appointed before January 1, 1973, may continue to serve until the
expiration of their terms. New appointments shall be made from nominees of the industry,
expiring.]profession, or organization represented by the member whose term is

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 43

2–206.

(A) IN SECTION, “COMMITTEE” COMMITTEE YOUNGTHIS MEANS THE ON
FARMERS.

(B) THERE COMMITTEE YOUNG FARMERS.IS A ON

(C) (1) THE COMMITTEE 10CONSISTS OF MEMBERS DESIGNATED BY THE
SECRETARY EXECUTIVE SECRETARYIN CONSULTATION WITH THE OF THE
MARYLAND AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION.

(2) (I) EXCEPT (II)AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, SECRETARYTHE SHALL DESIGNATE THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE BASIS.ON AN ANNUAL

(II) A COMMITTEEMEMBER OF THE THAT IS APPOINTED AS A
MARYLAND AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONMEMBER OF THE MAY CONTINUE TO
COMMITTEESERVE ON THE UNTIL THE EXPIRATION OF THEIR TERM ON THE
MARYLAND AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION.

(D) (1) EACH COMMITTEE SHALL:MEMBER OF THE

(I) BE INTERESTED IN THE PRESERVATION AND
MARYLAND AGRICULTURE;DEVELOPMENT OF

(II) DERIVE 50% MEMBER’SAT LEAST OF THE PERSONAL
STATE;INCOME FROM FARMING OR AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES IN THE

(III) BE STATE;A RESIDENT OF THE AND

(IV) BE 45UNDER THE AGE OF YEARS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
MEMBER’S TERM.

(2) TO PRACTICABLE,THE EXTENT THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMITTEE SHALL REPRESENT REGIONAL DIVERSITY AND A VARIETY OF
INDUSTRIES.

(E) THE COMMITTEE SHALL:

(1) COMMUNICATE PUBLIC, STATE GOVERNMENT,TO THE GENERAL
MARYLAND AGRICULTURAL COMMISSIONAND THE THE IMPORTANCE OF YOUNG
STATE;AND BEGINNING FARMERS TO AGRICULTURE IN THE

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 43 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) IDENTIFY AND ADDRESS ISSUES RELATING TO YOUNG AND
STATEBEGINNING FARMERS IN THE AND MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE
MARYLAND AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION; AND

(3) HOLD MEETINGS AT LEAST ONCE DURING EACH CALENDAR
YEAR.QUARTER OF THE

(F) A COMMITTEE:MEMBER OF THE

(1) MAY COMPENSATION;NOT RECEIVE BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

(G) THE DEPARTMENT COMMITTEE.SHALL PROVIDE STAFF FOR THE

2–503.

(a) (1) The Maryland Agricultural Land Preservation Foundation shall be
governed and administered by a board of trustees composed of:

(ii) Nine members from the State at–large to be appointed by the
Governor, at least six of whom shall be farmer representatives who are engaged in or
retired from active farming from different areas of the State, and four of whom shall be
appointed as follows:

1. One from a list of three nominees submitted by the
Maryland Agricultural Commission;

2. One from a list of three nominees submitted by the
Maryland Farm Bureau;

3. One from a list of three nominees submitted by the
Maryland State Grange; and

4. One from a list of three nominees submitted by the
COMMITTEE [Advisory Board];Young Farmers andON

(iii) Any designee appointed by an ex officio member under
paragraph (3) of this subsection.

[Subtitle Board.]10. Young Farmers Advisory

[2–1001.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 43

Department.]There is a Young Farmers Advisory Board in the

[2–1002.

(a) The Young Farmers Advisory Board shall consist of 20 members appointed by
the Governor.

(b) Of the 20 members:

(1) 1 shall be from the Department of Agriculture;

(2) 1 shall be from the Department of Economic Competitiveness and
Commerce;

(3) 1 shall be from the Forestry Program within the Department of Natural
Resources;

(4) 1 shall be an officer of the Maryland FFA Association;

(5) 1 shall be an urban farmer;

(6) 1 shall be from the Maryland Farm Bureau; and

(7) 14 shall be appointed from the general public.

(c) To the extent practicable, the Governor shall attempt to ensure regional
diversity among the members of the Advisory Board appointed from the general public.

(d) Each member from the general public shall:

(1) Be interested in the preservation and development of agriculture and
preservation of the agricultural way of life in Maryland;

(2) Be under the age of 45 years at the beginning of the member’s term;

(3) Derive at least 50% of the member’s personal income from farming or
agricultural activities in the State; and

(4) Be a resident of the State.

(e) (1) Except for the initial terms of the Advisory Board, the term of a member
shall be 3 years.

(2) (i) The terms of members are staggered as required by the terms
provided for members of the Advisory Board on October 1, 2004.

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 43 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) The terms of the initial members shall be staggered evenly
between 2 years and 3 years as the Advisory Board shall determine at the Board’s first
meeting.]

[2–1003.

The Advisory Board shall:

(1) Annually elect from its members a chairperson, a vice chairperson, and
a secretary of the Advisory Board at the Advisory Board’s first meeting of the calendar year;

(2) Communicate to the general public, the federal government, the State
government, and Maryland Agricultural Commission the importance of young and
beginning farmers to agriculture in the State;

(3) Identify and address issues relating to young and beginning farmers in
the State and make recommendations to the Maryland Agricultural Commission;

(4) Establish committees, as necessary, to develop projects relating to the
aspects of life for young and beginning farmers in the State;

(5) Hold meetings at least once during each calendar quarter of the year;
and

(6) Adopt a mission statement and administrative procedures to
subtitle.]implement this

[2–1004.

(a) A member of the Advisory Board:

(1) May not receive compensation; but

(2) Is entitled to reimbursement for expenses under the Standard State
Travel Regulations, as provided in the State budget.

Board.](b) The Department shall provide staff for the Advisory

[2–1005.

The chairperson, or the chairperson’s designee, shall:

(1) Attend meetings of the Maryland Agricultural Commission; and

Commission.](2) Provide a quarterly report to the Maryland Agricultural

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 43

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 9 –