PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 241

E2 5lr1258
HB 406/24 – JUD (PRE–FILED) CF SB 142

By: Delegate Simpson
Requested: October 17, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 18, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Marriage – Confidential Communication

3 FOR the purpose of clarifying that “spouse” includes a former spouse for purposes of
4 disclosure of confidential communications occurring during marriage; establishing
5 that a certain spouse is competent to disclose a certain confidential communication
6 in a criminal action in which one spouse is charged with a crime against the other
7 spouse; and generally relating to confidential communications occurring during
8 marriage.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
11 Section 9–105
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

17 9–105.

(A) IN SECTION, “SPOUSE” SPOUSE.18 THIS INCLUDES A FORMER

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0241*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 241

(B) [One] EXCEPT (C) SECTION,1 AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS ONE
2 spouse is not competent to disclose any confidential communication between the spouses
3 occurring during their marriage.

(C) (1) A4 SPOUSE WHO IS THE ALLEGED VICTIM IS COMPETENT TO
5 DISCLOSE A CONFIDENTIAL COMMUNICATION BETWEEN SPOUSES OCCURRING
6 DURING THEIR MARRIAGE IN A CRIMINAL ACTION IN WHICH ONE SPOUSE IS
SPOUSE.7 CHARGED WITH A CRIME AGAINST THE OTHER

(2) A8 SPOUSE MAY NOT BE COMPELLED TO TESTIFY TO A
SUBSECTION.9 CONFIDENTIAL COMMUNICATION UNDER THIS

10 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
11 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.