PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 79

Chapter 79

(House Bill 239)

AN ACT concerning

Charitable Organizations – Late Fees and Registration – Suspension and
Cancellation Requirements

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Secretary of State to suspend payment of certain late
fees assessed to certain charitable organizations under certain circumstances;
authorizing the Secretary of State to cancel a charitable organization’s registration
or reinstate a charitable organization’s canceled registration under certain
circumstances; and generally relating to the regulation of charitable organizations
by the Secretary of State.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 6–407
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2024 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 6–417
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2024 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Business Regulation
Section 6–418
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2024 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Business Regulation

6–407.

(a) A charitable organization that collects less than $25,000 in charitable
contributions from the public in a year need not pay an annual fee, except that, if the
charitable organization uses a professional solicitor, it shall pay an annual fee of $50.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 79 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) (1) Each charitable organization that submits a separate registration
statement and collects at least $25,000 in charitable contributions from the public in a year
shall pay an annual fee based on the charitable contributions collected.

(2) The annual fee shall be:

(i) $50, if charitable contributions from the public are at least
$25,000 but less than $50,001;

(ii) $75, if charitable contributions from the public are at least
$50,001 but less than $75,001;

(iii) $100, if charitable contributions from the public are at least
$75,001 but less than $100,001;

(iv) $200, if charitable contributions from the public are at least
$100,001 but less than $500,001; and

(v) $300, if charitable contributions from the public are at least
$500,001.

[An] A(c) (1) organization failing to file an annual reportCHARITABLE
either by the end of the 6–month period after the end of the charitable organization’s fiscal
year or within any period of extension granted shall pay, in addition to the annual fee, $25
for each month or part thereof after the date on which the annual report was due to be filed
or after the period of extension granted for such filing.

(2) The late fee shall be assessed 60 days after:

(i) the end of the 6th month after the end of the fiscal year; or

(ii) the period of extension.

(3) Failure to remit an assessed late fee is a violation of this title.

(4) THE SECRETARY STATEOF MAY SUSPEND OR WAIVE LATE FEES
WITH:IN ACCORDANCE

(I) (F)REGULATIONS ADOPTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION; OR

(II) § 6–205(B)A SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT MADE UNDER AND
(C) TITLE.OF THIS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 79

(d) The following revenues shall be distributed to the Charitable Enforcement
Fund under Subtitle 2A of this title, to be used only to support the actions of the Secretary
of State and the Attorney General in carrying out the duties of the Secretary of State and
the Attorney General under this title and Title 6.5 of this article:

(1) $100 of the annual fee paid by each charitable organization under
subsection (b)(2)(v) of this section; and

(2) the late fees collected under subsection (c) of this section.

(E) A LATE FEE ASSESSED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSIDERED
CENTRALA DELINQUENT ACCOUNT OR DEBT REQUIRING REFERRAL TO THE
COLLECTION UNIT § 3–302 STATEFOR COLLECTION PURPOSES UNDER OF THE
FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.AND

(F) THE SECRETARY STATEOF MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS REGARDING THE
SUSPENSION OR WAIVER ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IMPOSITION~~ ~~OR~~ ~~COLLECTION~~ OF LATE FEES FOR
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS THAT FAIL TO FILE AN ANNUAL REPORT UNDER
(C) SECTION.SUBSECTION OF THIS

6–417.

A charitable organization that intends to end soliciting shall submit to the Secretary
of State:

(1) a statement of its intent; and

(2) a final annual report within 6 months after the end of its fiscal year.

6–418.

(A) THE SECRETARY STATEOF MAY CANCEL THE REGISTRATION OF A
IF:CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION

(1) SUBMIT:THE ORGANIZATION FAILED TO

(I) A STATEMENT OF INTENT AND FINAL ANNUAL REPORT
§ 6–417 3UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE WITHIN YEARS AFTER THE DATE THE
DUE;STATEMENT OF INTENT AND FINAL ANNUAL REPORT WERE OR

(II) §ANY ANNUAL REPORT OR UPDATES REQUIRED UNDER
6–408 3–YEAR PERIOD;OF THIS SUBTITLE FOR A AND

(2) SECRETARY STATETHE OF SENDS A NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
E–MAIL ORGANIZATION.TO THE LAST KNOWN ADDRESS AND ADDRESS OF THE
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 79 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) A SECRETARYCHARITABLE ORGANIZATION MAY REQUEST THAT THE OF
STATE (A)REINSTATE A REGISTRATION CANCELED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
ORGANIZATION:SECTION IF THE

(1) SECRETARY STATESUBMITS TO THE OF ANY OUTSTANDING OR
REPORTS, MATERIALS,MISSING ANNUAL SUPPORTING AND ANNUAL FEES
TITLE;REQUIRED UNDER THIS

(2) (I) FEES;REMITS ALL UNPAID LATE OR

(II) HAD LATE FEES SUSPENDED OR WAIVED IN ACCORDANCE
§ 6–407(C) SUBTITLE;WITH OF THIS

(3) STATE DEPARTMENTIS IN GOOD STANDING WITH THE OF
ASSESSMENTS TAXATION, APPLICABLE;AND IF

(4) TAX–EXEMPT § 501(C)(3)HAS A CURRENT STATUS UNDER OF THE
INTERNAL REVENUE CODE, APPLICABLE;IF AND

(5) SECRETARYPROVIDES ANY OTHER INFORMATION THAT THE OF
STATE REQUIRES.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 4 –