PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 59

Chapter 59

(House Bill 279)

AN ACT concerning

Municipalities – Annexation Resolutions – Submission to Department of
Planning

FOR the purpose of adding the Department of Planning to the list of entities to which a
municipality must send a copy of an annexation resolution with the new municipal
boundaries; and generally relating to municipal annexation resolutions.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Local Government
Section 4–414
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Local Government

4–414.

(a) (1) The chief executive and administrative officer of a municipality that
has annexed property shall send a copy of the annexation resolution with the new
boundaries to:

(i) the clerk or similar official of the municipality;

(ii) the clerk of the court in any county in which the municipality is
located;

(iii) the Department of Legislative Services in accordance with
[and]paragraph (2) of this subsection;

DEPARTMENT PLANNING(iv) THE OF IN ACCORDANCE WITH
(2) SUBSECTION;PARAGRAPH OF THIS AND

(V) for any municipality located in the regional district, the
Maryland–National Capital Park and Planning Commission.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 59 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) The annexation resolution shall be sent to the Department of
DEPARTMENT PLANNINGLegislative Services within 10 days after theAND THE OF
resolution takes effect.

(b) Each official or agency that receives an annexation resolution under
subsection (a) of this section shall:

(1) keep on record the resolution with the new boundaries; and

(2) make the resolution available for public inspection during regular
business hours.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 2 –