PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 275

D4 5lr1461
HB 1045/24 – JUD (PRE–FILED)

By: Delegate Crutchfield
Requested: October 29, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Family Law – Child Support – Multifamily Adjustment

3 FOR the purpose of altering the definition of “adjusted actual income” under the State child
4 support guidelines; providing for the calculation of a certain allowance required to
5 be deducted from adjusted actual income under the child support guidelines;
6 requiring that the amount of a certain allowance be subtracted from a parent’s actual
7 income before the court determines the amount of a child support award; altering
8 the factors that the court may consider in determining whether the application of
9 the child support guidelines would be unjust or inappropriate in a particular case;
10 and generally relating to child support.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
12 Article – Family Law
13 Section 12–201(a) and (b)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
17 Article – Family Law
18 Section 12–201(c), 12–202(a), and 12–204(a)
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

21 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0275*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 275

1 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

2 Article – Family Law

3 12–201.

4 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

5 (b) (1) “Actual income” means income from any source.

6 (2) For income from self–employment, rent, royalties, proprietorship of a
7 business, or joint ownership of a partnership or closely held corporation, “actual income”
8 means gross receipts minus ordinary and necessary expenses required to produce income.

9 (3) “Actual income” includes:

10 (i) salaries;

11 (ii) wages;

12 (iii) commissions;

13 (iv) bonuses;

14 (v) dividend income;

15 (vi) pension income;

16 (vii) interest income;

17 (viii) trust income;

18 (ix) annuity income;

19 (x) Social Security benefits;

20 (xi) workers’ compensation benefits;

21 (xii) unemployment insurance benefits;

22 (xiii) disability insurance benefits;

23 (xiv) for the obligor, any third party payment paid to or for a minor
24 child as a result of the obligor’s disability, retirement, or other compensable claim;

25 (xv) alimony or maintenance received; and

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 275 3

1 (xvi) expense reimbursements or in–kind payments received by a
2 parent in the course of employment, self–employment, or operation of a business to the
3 extent the reimbursements or payments reduce the parent’s personal living expenses.

4 (4) Based on the circumstances of the case, the court may consider the
5 following items as actual income:

6 (i) severance pay;

7 (ii) capital gains;

8 (iii) gifts; or

9 (iv) prizes.

10 (5) “Actual income” does not include benefits received from
11 means–tested public assistance programs, including temporary cash assistance,
12 Supplemental Security Income, food stamps, and transitional emergency, medical, and
13 housing assistance.

(1)14 (c) “Adjusted actual income” means actual income minus:

[(1)] (I)15 preexisting reasonable child support obligations actually paid;
[and]16

[(2)] (II)17 except as provided in § 12–204(a)(2) of this subtitle, alimony or
paid;18 maintenance obligations actually AND

(III)19 AN ALLOWANCE FOR SUPPORT FOR EACH CHILD LIVING IN
PARENT’S20 A HOME TO WHOM THE PARENT OWES A LEGAL DUTY OF SUPPORT IF THE
9221 CHILD IS CONSIDERED TO BE SPENDING MORE THAN OVERNIGHTS IN THE
PARENT’S22 ORDER.HOME IN A YEAR AND NOT SUBJECT TO THE SUPPORT

(2) FOR23 PURPOSES OF DETERMINING THE AMOUNT OF THE
(1)(III) SUBSECTION:24 ALLOWANCE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(I)25 THE BASIC CHILD SUPPORT OBLIGATION FOR EACH
PARENT’S26 ADDITIONAL CHILD IN THE HOME SHALL BE DETERMINED IN
§ 12–204 SUBTITLE,27 ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS USING ONLY THE ACTUAL INCOME
DEDUCTION;28 OF THE PARENT ENTITLED TO THE AND

(II) (I)29 THE AMOUNT DETERMINED UNDER ITEM OF THIS
75%.30 PARAGRAPH SHALL BE MULTIPLIED BY

(3) THE31 COURT SHALL DECLINE TO AWARD AN ALLOWANCE UNDER

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 275

(1) FINDS,1 PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION IF THE COURT AFTER CONSIDERING
2 THE EVIDENCE AND THE BEST INTEREST OF THE CHILD FOR WHOM SUPPORT IS
DETERMINED,3 BEING THAT THE APPLICATION OF AN ALLOWANCE WOULD BE
INAPPROPRIATE.4 UNJUST OR

5 12–202.

6 (a) (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subsection and
7 subsection (b) of this section, in any proceeding to establish or modify child support,
8 whether pendente lite or permanent, the court shall use the child support guidelines set
9 forth in this subtitle.

10 (2) (i) There is a rebuttable presumption that the amount of child
11 support which would result from the application of the child support guidelines set forth in
12 this subtitle is the correct amount of child support to be awarded.

13 (ii) The presumption may be rebutted by evidence that the
14 application of the guidelines would be unjust or inappropriate in a particular case.

15 (iii) In determining whether the application of the guidelines would
16 be unjust or inappropriate in a particular case, the court may consider ANY FINANCIAL
17 CONSIDERATIONS:

[the any]18 1. terms of existing separationSPECIFIED IN AN
including:19 or property settlement agreement or court order,

A. [or],20 any provisions for payment of mortgages marital
[payment of] expenses[,];21 debts, college educationOR

B.22 the terms of any use and possession order or right to
agreement[,];23 occupy the family home under an AND

C.24 any direct payments made for the benefit of the children
order[,25 required by agreement or or any other financial considerations set out in anTHE
order];26 existing separation or property settlement agreement or court

[the27 2. presence in the household of either parent of other
28 children to whom that parent owes a duty of support and the expenses for whom that parent
and]29 is directly contributing; THAT THE COURT DEEMS RELEVANT TO THE BEST
ORDER;30 INTERESTS OF THE CHILD WHO IS THE SUBJECT OF THE CHILD SUPPORT OR

[whether obligation]31 3. an obligor’s monthly child support
32 would leave the obligor with a monthly actual income below 110% of the 2019 federalTHAT
33 poverty level for an individual.

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 275 5

[The1 (iv) presumption may not be rebutted solely on the basis of
2 evidence of the presence in the household of either parent of other children to whom that
3 parent owes a duty of support and the expenses for whom that parent is directly
4 contributing.

(v)]5 1. If the court determines that the application of the
6 guidelines would be unjust or inappropriate in a particular case, the court shall make a
7 written finding or specific finding on the record stating the reasons for departing from the
8 guidelines.

9 2. The court’s finding shall state:

10 A. the amount of child support that would have been required
11 under the guidelines;

12 B. how the order varies from the guidelines;

13 C. how the finding serves the best interests of the child WHO
14 ORDER; andIS THE SUBJECT OF THE

15 D. in cases in which items of value are conveyed instead of a
16 portion of the support presumed under the guidelines, the estimated value of the items
17 conveyed.

18 12–204.

19 (a) (1) The basic child support obligation shall be determined in accordance
20 with the schedule of basic child support obligations in subsection (e) of this section. The
21 basic child support obligation shall be divided between the parents in proportion to their
22 adjusted actual incomes.

23 (2) (i) If one or both parents have made a request for alimony or
24 maintenance in the proceeding in which a child support award is sought, the court shall
25 decide the issue and amount of alimony or maintenance before determining the child
26 support obligation under these guidelines.

27 (ii) If the court awards alimony or maintenance, the amount of
28 alimony or maintenance awarded shall be considered actual income for the recipient of the
29 alimony or maintenance and shall be subtracted from the income of the payor of the alimony
[§ 12–201(c)(2)] § 12–201(C)(1)(II)30 or maintenance under of this subtitle before the court
31 determines the amount of a child support award.

(3) THE32 AMOUNT OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR THE SUPPORT OF
PARENT’S §33 ADDITIONAL CHILDREN LIVING IN A HOME DESCRIBED IN
12–201(C)(1)(III) PARENT’S34 OF THIS SUBTITLE SHALL BE SUBTRACTED FROM THE

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 275

1 ACTUAL INCOME BEFORE THE COURT DETERMINES THE AMOUNT OF A CHILD
AWARD.2 SUPPORT

3 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
4 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.