PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 91

Chapter 91

(House Bill 259)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Statewide DNA Database System, DNA Collection, and Penalties
– Alterations

FOR the purpose of requiring a certain DNA sample to be collected in a certain manner
from an individual who is required to register as a sex offender; requiring a DNA
sample to be collected by a certain individual or at a certain location under certain
circumstances; requiring a custodial agency or correctional facility to ensure a DNA
sample is collected in a certain manner; prohibiting a DNA sample from being tested
and placed in a certain statewide DNA database system until certain conditions are
met; prohibiting an individual from refusing to provide a DNA sample as required
for collection in the database system; requiring certain DNA samples or DNA records
to be destroyed and expunged under certain circumstances; and generally relating
to the statewide DNA database system and the collection of DNA samples.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 2–501
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 2–504 and 2–511
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

2–501.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Burglary” includes the crimes enumerated in §§ 6–202, 6–203, and 6–204 of
the Criminal Law Article.

(c) (1) “CODIS” means the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s “Combined DNA
Index System” that allows the storage and exchange of DNA records submitted by federal,
state, and local forensic DNA laboratories.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 91 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) “CODIS” includes the national DNA index administered and operated
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

(d) “Crime Laboratory” means the Forensic Sciences Division of the Department.

(e) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, “crime of
violence” has the meaning stated in § 14–101 of the Criminal Law Article.

(2) “Crime of violence” does not include mayhem.

(f) “Director” means the Director of the Crime Laboratory or the Director’s
designee.

(g) “DNA” means deoxyribonucleic acid.

(h) (1) “DNA record” means DNA information stored in CODIS or the
statewide DNA database system.

(2) “DNA record” includes the information commonly referred to as a DNA
profile.

(i) “DNA sample” means a body fluid or tissue sample that is:

(1) provided by an individual who is convicted of a felony or a violation of §
6–205 or § 6–206 of the Criminal Law Article;

(2) provided by an individual who is charged with:

(i) a crime of violence or an attempt to commit a crime of violence;
or

(ii) burglary or an attempt to commit burglary; or

(3) submitted to the statewide DNA database system for testing as part of
a criminal investigation.

(j) “Statewide DNA database system” means the DNA record system
administered by the Department for identification purposes.

(k) “Statewide DNA repository” means the State repository of DNA samples
collected under this subtitle.

2–504.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 91

(a) (1) In accordance with regulations adopted under this subtitle, an
individual who is convicted of a felony or a violation of § 6–205 or § 6–206 of the Criminal
Law Article shall:

(i) have a DNA sample collected either at the time of sentence or on
intake to a correctional facility, if the individual is sentenced to a term of imprisonment; or

(ii) provide a DNA sample as a condition of sentence or probation, if
the individual is not sentenced to a term of imprisonment.

(2) An individual who was convicted of a felony or a violation of § 6–205 or
§ 6–206 of the Criminal Law Article on or before October 1, 2003 and who remains confined
in a correctional facility on or after October 1, 1999, shall submit a DNA sample to the
Department.

(3) (i) In accordance with regulations adopted under this subtitle, a
DNA sample shall be collected from an individual who is charged with:

1. a crime of violence or an attempt to commit a crime of
violence; or

2. burglary or an attempt to commit burglary.

(ii) At the time of collection of the DNA sample under this
paragraph, the individual from whom a sample is collected shall be given notice that the
DNA record may be expunged and the DNA sample destroyed in accordance with § 2–511
of this subtitle.

(iii) DNA evidence collected from a crime scene or collected as
evidence of sexual assault at a hospital that a law enforcement investigator considers
relevant to the identification or exoneration of a suspect shall be tested as soon as
reasonably possible following collection of the sample.

(4) AN INDIVIDUAL REQUIRED TO REGISTER AS A SEX OFFENDER
§ 11–704 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE ARTICLE DNAUNDER OF THE SHALL HAVE A
SAMPLE COLLECTED BY THE SUPERVISING AUTHORITY WHERE THE INDIVIDUAL IS
REGISTER.INITIALLY REQUIRED TO

(b) In accordance with regulations adopted under this subtitle, each DNA sample
required to be collected under this section shall be collected:

IS:(1) BY AN INDIVIDUAL WHO

(I) DIRECTOR;DESIGNATED BY THE AND

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 91 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) TRAINED IN THE COLLECTION PROCEDURES THAT THE
CRIME LABORATORY USES; AND

(2) (I) [atat the time the individual is charged, a facility specified by
Secretary]the BY AN EMPLOYEE OF A BOOKING FACILITY OR THE ARRESTING
AGENCY;

(II) AFTER A CONVICTION OF A QUALIFYING CRIME UNDER
(A)(1) SECTION:SUBSECTION OF THIS

[(2)] 1. BY AN EMPLOYEE OF A CORRECTIONAL FACILITY AT
at the correctional facility where the individual is confined, if theTHE TIME OF INTAKE
individual is confined in a correctional facility on or after October 1, 2003, or is sentenced
to a term of imprisonment on or after October 1, 2003;

[(3)] 2. at a facility specified by the Director, if the individual is
on probation or is not sentenced to a term of imprisonment; or

[(4)] 3. at a suitable location in a circuit court following the
imposition of sentence; OR

(III) AT THE TIME OF REGISTRATION AS A SEX OFFENDER UNDER
§ 11–704 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE ARTICLE,OF THE BY THE SUPERVISING
REGISTER,AUTHORITY WHERE THE INDIVIDUAL IS INITIALLY REQUIRED TO IF
APPLICABLE.

[(c) A DNA sample shall be collected by an individual who is:

(1) designated by the Director; and

uses.](2) trained in the collection procedures that the Crime Laboratory

(C) BEFORE CUSTODY,RELEASING AN INDIVIDUAL FROM THE CUSTODIAL
INDIVIDUAL’S DNAAGENCY OR CORRECTIONAL FACILITY SHALL ENSURE THAT THE
SECTION.SAMPLE HAS BEEN COLLECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS

IN SUBSECTION, “POLICE OFFICER”(d) (1) THIS HAS THE MEANING
§ 3–301 ARTICLE.STATED IN OF THIS

(2) A DNA sample collected from an individual charged with a crime under
subsection (a)(3) of this section may ~~not~~ be tested or placed in the statewide DNAONLY
[prior date]:database system to the first scheduled arraignment

(I) IF:~~UNTIL~~

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 91

1. A DETERMINATION IS MADE BY A JUDGE OR
DISTRICT COURT COURT,COMMISSIONER OF THE OR A JUDGE OF THE CIRCUIT
BASED ON AN APPLICATION FOR A STATEMENT OF CHARGES FILED BY A POLICE
STATE’S ATTORNEY,OFFICER OR A THAT PROBABLE CAUSE EXISTS FOR A
MARYLAND RULES;QUALIFYING CRIME IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE

2. THE INDIVIDUAL HAS BEEN ARRESTED FOR A
QUALIFYING ~~CHARGE~~ CRIME IN ACCORDANCE WITH AN ARREST WARRANT BASED ON
AN APPLICATION FOR A STATEMENT OF CHARGES FILED BY A POLICE OFFICER OR A
STATE’S ATTORNEY;

3. STATE’S ATTORNEYAN INFORMATION IS FILED BY A
§ 4–102 CRIMINALFOR A QUALIFYING CRIME IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
PROCEDURE ARTICLE; OR

4. AN INDICTMENT IS RETURNED BY A GRAND JURY
CRIME;CHARGING THE INDIVIDUAL WITH A QUALIFYING OR

(II) unless requested or consented to by the individual as provided in
(4)paragraph ~~(3)~~ of this subsection.

(3)~~(2)~~ If all qualifying criminal charges are determined to be
unsupported by probable cause:

(i) the DNA sample shall be immediately destroyed; and

(ii) notice shall be sent to the defendant and counsel of record for the
defendant that the sample was destroyed.

(4)~~(3)~~ An individual may request or consent to have the individual’s
[arraignment]DNA sample processed prior to forA PROBABLE CAUSE DETERMINATION
the sole purpose of having the sample checked against a sample that:

(i) has been processed from the crime scene or the hospital; and

(ii) is related to the charges against the individual.

(e) A second DNA sample shall be taken if needed to obtain sufficient DNA for
the statewide DNA database system or if ordered by the court for good cause shown.

(f) Failure of an individual who is not sentenced to a term of imprisonment to
provide a DNA sample within 90 days after notice by the Director is a violation of probation.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 91 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(G) (1) AN DNAINDIVIDUAL MAY NOT REFUSE TO PROVIDE A SAMPLE IN
SECTION.ACCORDANCE WITH THIS

(2) AN (1)INDIVIDUAL WHO VIOLATES PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION IS GUILTY OF A MISDEMEANOR AND ON CONVICTION IS SUBJECT TO A
~~$10,000~~ $1,000.FINE NOT EXCEEDING

(H) (1) AN DNAEMPLOYEE WHO ATTEMPTS TO COLLECT A SAMPLE IN
SECTION,ACCORDANCE WITH THIS BUT IS UNABLE TO COLLECT THE SAMPLE
BECAUSE THE INDIVIDUAL WHO IS REQUIRED TO SUBMIT THE SAMPLE REFUSES TO
SO, EMPLOYEE’SDO SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE DISCHARGED THE DUTY UNDER
SECTION.THIS

(2) A DNAREFUSAL TO SUBMIT A SAMPLE AS REQUIRED UNDER THIS
STATE’S ATTORNEY’SSECTION SHALL BE REFERRED TO THE OFFICE FOR
(G) SECTION.PROSECUTION UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

2–511.

[(2)] (3) [any](a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph of this subsection, AN
INDIVIDUAL’S [generatedDNA samples and records as part of a criminal investigation or
prosecution] § 2–504(A)(3)THAT ARE COLLECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
[or] [State]shall be destroyed expunged automatically from theSUBTITLE AND
DNA database if:STATEWIDE SYSTEM

(i) a criminal action begun against the individual relating to the
crime does not result in a conviction of the individual;

(ii) the conviction is finally reversed or vacated and no new trial is
permitted; or

(iii) the individual is granted an unconditional pardon.

(2) EXCEPT (3) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS A
DNA COLLECTED, TESTED,SAMPLE BUT NOT FROM AN INDIVIDUAL CHARGED WITH
§ 2–504(A)(3)A CRIME UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE SHALL BE DESTROYED AND
IF:EXPUNGED

(I) 2AT LEAST YEARS HAVE PASSED FROM THE DATE OF
DNA SAMPLE;COLLECTION OF THE AND

(II) DNATHE SAMPLE FAILED TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS
TESTING.FOR

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 91

[(2)] (3) A DNA sample or DNA record may not be destroyed or expunged
[State] if:automatically from the DNA databaseSTATEWIDE SYSTEM

(I) [or];the criminal action is put on the stet docket

(II) judgment;the individual receives probation before OR

(III) §THE TRIAL FOR A QUALIFYING CHARGE UNDER
2–504(A)(3) REASON.OF THIS SUBTITLE REMAINS PENDING FOR ANY

(b) If the DNA sample or DNA record was obtained or generated only in
connection with a case in which eligibility for expungement has been established, the DNA
sample shall be destroyed and the DNA record shall be expunged.

(c) Any DNA record expunged in accordance with this section shall be expunged
from every database into which it has been entered, including local, State, and federal
databases.

(d) An expungement or destruction of sample under this section shall occur within
60 days of an event listed in subsection (a) of this section.

[A letter] WRITTEN(e) documenting expungement of the DNA recordNOTICE
shall,and destruction of the DNA sample IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS
DIRECTOR, be sent by the Director to the defendant and theADOPTED BY THE
defendant’s attorney at the address specified by the court in the order of expungement.

(f) A record or sample that qualifies for expungement or destruction under this
section and is matched concurrent with or subsequent to the date of qualification for
expungement:

(1) may not be utilized for a determination of probable cause regardless of
whether it is expunged or destroyed timely; and

(2) is not admissible in any proceeding for any purpose.

[procedures](g) The Director shall adopt to comply with thisREGULATIONS
section.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “DNA sample” has the meaning stated in § 2–501 of the Public Safety
Article.

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 91 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) “Statewide DNA database system” has the meaning stated in § 2–501
of the Public Safety Article.

(b) For any DNA sample collected in accordance with § 2–504(a)(3) of the Public
Safety Article before the effective date of this Act, the Forensic Sciences Division in the
Department of State Police shall, on or before October 1, 2028, destroy and expunge the
record of any DNA sample that has not been tested or placed in the statewide DNA
database system on or before November 1, 2027, because the DNA sample failed to meet
the requirements of Title 2, Subtitle 5 of the Public Safety Article, as that subtitle existed
before the effective date of this Act.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 8 –