PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 251

O1 5lr0346
(PRE–FILED) CF SB 230

By: Chair, Appropriations Committee (By Request – Departmental – Human
Services)
Requested: October 3, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Appropriations

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Human Services – Local Departments of Social Services – Audits

3 FOR the purpose of altering the frequency with which the Office of the Inspector General
4 in the Department of Human Services conducts or contracts for financial and
5 compliance audits of local departments of social services; and generally relating to
6 audits of local departments of social services.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 Article – Human Services
9 Section 3–602
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Human Services

15 3–602.

[At the] THE16 (a) least once every 3 years, Office of the Inspector General in the
shall[:17 Department

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0251*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 251

1 (1) conduct or contract for a financial and compliance audit of each local
2 department; and

findings]3 (2) prepare a written report of the audit CONDUCT OR
4 CONTRACT FOR A FINANCIAL AND COMPLIANCE AUDIT OF EACH LOCAL
~~3~~ 45 DEPARTMENT AT AN INTERVAL ~~RANGING~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~TO~~ OF YEARS UNLESS THE
OFFICE INSPECTOR GENERAL DETERMINES, CASE–BY–CASE BASIS,6 OF THE ON A
7 THAT ~~MORE~~ ~~FREQUENT~~ ~~AUDITS~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ AN AUDIT OCCUR AT AN INTERVAL
38 YEARS.OF

(B) IN DEPARTMENT,9 DETERMINING THE AUDIT INTERVAL FOR A LOCAL
OFFICE INSPECTOR GENERAL CONSIDERATION:10 THE OF THE SHALL TAKE INTO

(1)11 THE MATERIALITY AND RISK PROFILE OF THE LOCAL
DEPARTMENT’S ACTIVITIES;12 PROGRAMS AND FISCAL

(2)13 THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS OF THE
DEPARTMENT;14 LOCAL AND

(3) RISK.15 ANY OTHER FACTOR RELATED TO

[(b)] (C)16 The audit shall comply with the auditing standards issued by the
17 Institute of Internal Auditors.

[(c)] (D) [The] A18 written report of the audit findings shall be PREPARED AND
19 distributed to:

20 (1) the local board; and

21 (2) the local governing authority.

22 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
23 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.