PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 37

Chapter 37

(House Bill 246)

AN ACT concerning

Human Services – Adult Protective Services

FOR the purpose of specifying that certain provisions of law relating to confidentiality do
not prohibit the disclosure of certain information relating to adult protective services
or the disclosure of the identity of certain persons making certain reports under
certain circumstances; expanding the definition of “health practitioner” to include
certain emergency medical services providers in certain provisions of law relating to
adult protective services; authorizing certain individuals who are required under
certain circumstances to report certain information regarding alleged vulnerable
adults to make a report by calling the statewide reporting hotline; and generally
relating to vulnerable adults and adult protective services.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Human Services
Section 1–201
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Family Law
Section 14–101(g), 14–302(b), and 14–308
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Family Law
Section 14–302(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Human Services

1–201.

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, a person may not disclose
any information concerning an applicant for or recipient of social services, child welfare
services, cash assistance, food stamps, or medical assistance that is directly or indirectly
derived from the records, investigations, or communications of the State, a county, or a
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 37 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

municipal corporation or a unit of the State, a county, or a municipal corporation or that is
acquired in the course of the performance of official duties.

(b) This section does not prohibit the disclosure of information:

(1) in accordance with a court order;

government[,](2) to an officer or employee of any state or local theOR
[or institution,]United States, a fiduciary if the officer or employee is entitled to the
information in an official capacity and the disclosure is necessary to administer:

(i) public assistance, medical assistance, social services, or child
welfare services programs; or

(ii) voter registration in accordance with § 3–203 of the Election Law
[or]Article;

(3) to a fiduciary institution that reported suspected financial abuse or
financial exploitation, if the fiduciary institution is authorized to request the information
Article;under § 1–306(h) of the Financial Institutions OR

(4) SERVICES,RELATING TO ADULT PROTECTIVE TO AN OFFICER OR
UNITED STATESEMPLOYEE OF ANY STATE OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT OR THE IF THE
OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONDUCTING AN INVESTIGATION IN
INVESTIGATION.AN OFFICIAL CAPACITY AND THE DISCLOSURE IS RELEVANT TO THE

(c) A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction
is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 90 days or a fine not exceeding $500 or both.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Family Law

14–101.

(1)(g) “Health practitioner” includes any person who is authorized to practice
OR,healing under the Health Occupations Article EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH
(2) SUBSECTION, § 13–516 EDUCATION ARTICLE.OF THIS OF THE

(2) “HEALTH PRACTITIONER” DOES NOT INCLUDE AN EMERGENCY
DISPATCHER, § 13–516 EDUCATION ARTICLE.MEDICAL AS DEFINED IN OF THE

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 37

Article – Family Law

14–302.

(a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, notwithstanding
any law on privileged communications, each health practitioner, police officer, or human
service worker who contacts, examines, attends, or treats an alleged vulnerable adult, and
who has reason to believe that the alleged vulnerable adult has been subjected to abuse,
neglect, self–neglect, or exploitation shall:

(i) notify the local department; and

(ii) if acting as a staff member of a hospital or public health agency,
immediately notify and give all the information required by this section to the head of the
institution or the designee of the head.

(2) An ombudsman, as defined in § 10–901 of the Human Services Article,
shall comply with 42 U.S.C. § 3058g(d)(2) and may not disclose the identity of a resident or
complainant except as authorized under 42 U.S.C. § 3058g(d)(2).

(b) An individual who is required to make a report under subsection (a) of this
section shall make the report by telephone, directAS SOON AS POSSIBLE BY
[as possible]communication, or in writing to the local department soon as OR BY CALLING
HOTLINE.THE STATEWIDE REPORTING

14–308.

(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, the identity of any
person who makes a report under § 14–302 of this subtitle shall be confidential.

(b) The identity of a person who makes a report under § 14–302 of this subtitle
may be disclosed if:

[or](1) the person consents;

disclosure;(2) the court orders the OR

(3) § 1–201THE DISCLOSURE OCCURS IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
HUMAN SERVICES ARTICLE.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section 2 of this Act shall take
effect July 1, 2026.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, except as provided in
Section 4 of this Act, this Act shall take effect October 1, 2025.
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 37 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 4 –