PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 302

D1, D4 5lr0812

By: Delegate Moon
Introduced and read first time: January 9, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 2, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Courts and Judicial Proceedings – Statement of Charges – Human Service
3 Workers

4 FOR the purpose of expanding certain provisions of law relating to a certain investigation
5 and recommendation by a State’s Attorney concerning the filing of a statement of
6 charges against certain professionals to include certain human service workers; and
7 generally relating to statements of charges against human service workers.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
10 Section 2–608
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)
13 (As enacted by Chapter 59 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2021)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

17 2–608.

18 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0302*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 302

(2) “ADULT WORKER”1 PROTECTIVE SERVICES MEANS A HUMAN
WORKER, § 14–101 FAMILY LAW ARTICLE,2 SERVICE AS DEFINED IN OF THE
PROGRAM.3 EMPLOYED BY A PUBLIC ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES

[(2)] (3)4 “Charging document” means a written accusation alleging that a
5 defendant has committed an offense.

(4) “CHILD CASEWORKER”6 WELFARE MEANS A HUMAN SERVICES
§7 PROFESSIONAL WHO MEETS THE QUALIFICATIONS FOR EMPLOYMENT UNDER
4–301 HUMAN SERVICES ARTICLE.8 OF THE

[(3)] (5)9 “Citation” means a charging document, other than an
10 indictment, an information, or a statement of charges, issued to a defendant by a peace
11 officer or other person authorized by law to do so.

[(4)] (6)12 “Educator” means a principal, vice–principal, teacher, or
13 teacher’s aide at a public or private preschool, elementary, or secondary school.

[(5)] (7)14 “Emergency services personnel” means:

15 (i) A career firefighter of a county or municipal corporation;

16 (ii) An emergency medical services provider as defined in § 13–516
17 of the Education Article of a county or municipal corporation;

18 (iii) A rescue squad employee of a county or municipal corporation;
19 and

20 (iv) A volunteer firefighter, rescue squad member, or advanced life
21 support unit member of a county or municipal corporation.

[(6)] (8)22 “Indictment” means a charging document returned by a grand
23 jury and filed in circuit court.

[(7)] (9)24 “Information” means a charging document filed in court by a
25 State’s Attorney.

[(8)] (10)26 “Law enforcement officer” means:

27 (i) A law enforcement officer as defined in § 1–101 of the Public
28 Safety Article;

29 (ii) The Police Commissioner of Baltimore City;

30 (iii) An individual who serves at the pleasure of the Police
31 Commissioner of Baltimore City;

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 302 3

1 (iv) The police chief of a county law enforcement agency;

2 (v) The police chief of a municipal corporation;

3 (vi) The police chief or superintendent of a State law enforcement
4 agency;

5 (vii) The sheriff of a county;

6 (viii) An officer who is on probationary status on initial entry into a
7 law enforcement agency;

8 (ix) A correctional officer as defined in § 8–201 of the Correctional
9 Services Article; or

10 (x) Any federal law enforcement officer who exercises the powers set
11 forth in § 2–104 of the Criminal Procedure Article.

[(9)] (11)12 “Offense” means a violation of the criminal laws of the State or
13 any political subdivision of the State.

[(10)] (12)14 “Statement of charges” means a charging document, other than
15 a citation, filed in District Court by a peace officer, a District Court Judge, or a District
16 Court Commissioner.

17 (b) An application filed in the District Court that requests that a statement of
18 charges be filed against a law enforcement officer, emergency services personnel, AN
WORKER, CASEWORKER,19 or anADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES A CHILD WELFARE
20 educator for an offense allegedly committed in the course of executing the duties of the law
21 enforcement officer, emergency services personnel, ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES
WORKER, CASEWORKER,22 or educator shall immediately be forwardedCHILD WELFARE
23 to the State’s Attorney.

24 (c) (1) Upon receiving an application filed in District Court requesting that a
25 statement of charges be filed against a law enforcement officer, emergency services
WORKER,26 personnel, AN ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES A CHILD WELFARE
CASEWORKER,27 or an educator, the State’s Attorney shall:

28 (i) Investigate the circumstances of the matter; and

29 (ii) Make a recommendation to the District Court Commissioner as
30 to whether a statement of charges should be filed against the law enforcement officer,
WORKER,31 emergency services personnel, ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES CHILD
CASEWORKER,32 or the educator.WELFARE

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 302

1 (2) If the State’s Attorney recommends to a District Court Commissioner
2 that a statement of charges be filed against a law enforcement officer, emergency services
WORKER,3 personnel, AN ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES A CHILD WELFARE
CASEWORKER,4 or an educator, the State’s Attorney shall also make a recommendation as
5 to whether a summons or warrant should issue.

6 (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Code or the Maryland Rules, a
7 statement of charges for an offense allegedly committed in the course of executing the
8 duties of the law enforcement officer, emergency services personnel, ADULT PROTECTIVE
WORKER, CASEWORKER,9 or the educator may not be filedSERVICES CHILD WELFARE
10 against a law enforcement officer, emergency services personnel, AN ADULT PROTECTIVE
WORKER, CASEWORKER,11 or educator until the State’sSERVICES A CHILD WELFARE
12 Attorney has investigated the circumstances of the matter and made recommendations to
13 the District Court Commissioner in accordance with subsection (c) of this section.

14 (e) This section may not be construed to preclude the State’s Attorney from
15 making a determination that an information should be filed against a law enforcement
WORKER,16 officer, emergency services personnel, AN ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES A
CASEWORKER,17 or an educator or that a grand jury should be convenedCHILD WELFARE
18 to determine whether an indictment should be filed.

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
20 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.