PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 388

R3, R4 5lr2386
HB 1406/24 – JUD

By: Delegates Roberson and Crutchfield
Introduced and read first time: January 16, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 18, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Vehicle Laws – Drunk and Drugged Driving – Points Assessments

3 FOR the purpose of imposing certain points assessments for certain subsequent drunk and
4 drugged driving violations; and generally relating to points assessments for drunk
5 and drugged driving violations.

6 BY adding to
7 Article – Transportation
8 Section 16–402(a)(47) and (48)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
12 Article – Transportation
13 Section 21–902(h) and (i)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
17 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

18 Article – Transportation

19 16–402.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0388*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 388

1 (a) After the conviction of an individual for a violation of Title 2, Subtitle 5, §
2 2–209, § 3–211, or § 10–110 of the Criminal Law Article, or of the vehicle laws or regulations
3 of this State or of any local authority, points shall be assessed against the individual as of
4 the date of violation and as follows:

(47) A § 21–902(H) ARTICLE……..…..125 VIOLATION OF OF THIS POINTS

(48) A § 21–902(I) ARTICLE…………..126 VIOLATION OF OF THIS POINTS

7 21–902.

8 (h) (1) A person may not violate subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section if
9 the person previously has been convicted of two violations of any provision of subsection
10 (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section or § 8–738 of the Natural Resources Article.

11 (2) For purposes of this subsection, a conviction for a crime under the laws
12 of the United States that would be a crime included in paragraph (1) of this subsection if
13 committed in this State shall be considered a prior conviction under this subsection.

14 (3) A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor and
15 on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 5 years or a fine not exceeding
16 $5,000 or both.

17 (i) (1) A person may not violate subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section if
18 the person previously has been convicted of:

19 (i) Three or more violations of any provision of subsection (a), (b),
20 (c), or (d) of this section or § 8–738 of the Natural Resources Article; or

21 (ii) A violation of § 2–209, § 2–503, § 2–504, § 2–505, § 2–506, or §
22 3–211 of the Criminal Law Article.

23 (2) For purposes of this subsection, a conviction for a crime under the laws
24 of the United States that would be a crime included in paragraph (1) of this subsection if
25 committed in this State shall be considered a prior conviction under this subsection.

26 (3) A person who violates this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor and
27 on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or a fine not exceeding
28 $10,000 or both.

29 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
30 1, 2025.