PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 349

R5 (5lr1058)
ENROLLED BILL
— Environment and Transportation/Judicial Proceedings —
Introduced by Prince George’s County Delegation

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Prince George’s County – Speed Monitoring Systems – Maryland Route 210

3 PG 306–25

4 FOR the purpose of increasing the maximum civil penalties for violations recorded by speed
5 monitoring systems on Maryland Route 210 (Piscataway Highway) in Prince
6 George’s County that involve exceeding the maximum speed limit by certain
7 amounts; ~~repealing~~ ~~the~~ ~~termination~~ ~~provision~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~authority~~ ~~to~~ ~~place~~ ~~speed~~
8 ~~monitoring~~ ~~systems~~ ~~on~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Route~~ ~~210~~ ~~(Piscataway~~ ~~Highway)~~ ~~in~~ ~~Prince~~
9 ~~George’s~~ ~~County;~~ and generally relating to speed monitoring systems on Maryland
10 Route 210 (Piscataway Highway) in Prince George’s County.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
12 Article – Transportation
13 Section 21–809(c)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0349*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 349

1 Annotated Code of Maryland
2 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

3 ~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
4 ~~Chapter~~ ~~806~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Acts~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly~~ ~~of~~ ~~2018,~~ ~~as~~ ~~amended~~ ~~by~~ ~~Chapter~~
5 ~~606~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Acts~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly~~ ~~of~~ ~~2023~~
6 ~~Section~~ ~~3~~

7 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
8 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

9 Article – Transportation

10 21–809.

11 (c) (1) Unless the driver of the motor vehicle received a citation from a police
12 officer at the time of the violation, the owner or, in accordance with subsection (f)(4) of this
13 section, the driver of a motor vehicle is subject to a civil penalty if the motor vehicle is
14 recorded by a speed monitoring system while being operated in violation of this subtitle.

(I) [A] EXCEPT (II)15 (2) AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH,16 civil penalty under this subsection may not exceed $40.A

(II) 1. THIS17 SUBPARAGRAPH APPLIES TO A CIVIL PENALTY
18 ASSESSED TO THE OWNER OR DRIVER OF A MOTOR VEHICLE THAT IS RECORDED BY
MARYLAND ROUTE 21019 A SPEED MONITORING SYSTEM WHILE BEING OPERATED ON
(PISCATAWAY HIGHWAY) PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY20 IN IN VIOLATION OF THIS
SUBTITLE.21

2. ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~3~~22 ~~TO~~ ~~SUBSUBPARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBPARAGRAPH,~~ THE23 ~~A~~ MAXIMUM CIVIL PENALTY UNDER THIS SUBPARAGRAPH IS
FOLLOWS:24 AS

A. FOR25 EXCEEDING THE MAXIMUM POSTED SPEED LIMIT
12 15, INCLUSIVE, HOUR, ~~$60~~ ~~$50~~ $40;26 BY BETWEEN AND MILES PER

B. FOR27 EXCEEDING THE MAXIMUM POSTED SPEED LIMIT
16 19, INCLUSIVE, HOUR, ~~$80~~ $70;28 BY BETWEEN AND MILES PER

C. FOR29 EXCEEDING THE MAXIMUM POSTED SPEED LIMIT
20 29, INCLUSIVE, HOUR, ~~$140~~ $120;30 BY BETWEEN AND MILES PER

D. FOR31 EXCEEDING THE MAXIMUM POSTED SPEED LIMIT
30 39, INCLUSIVE, HOUR, ~~$270~~ $230;32 BY BETWEEN AND MILES PER OR

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 349 3

E. FOR1 EXCEEDING THE MAXIMUM POSTED SPEED LIMIT
40 MORE, ~~$500~~ $425.2 BY MILES PER HOUR OR

3 (3) For purposes of this section, the District Court shall prescribe:

4 (i) A uniform citation form consistent with subsection (d)(1) of this
5 section and § 7–302 of the Courts Article; and

6 (ii) A civil penalty, which shall be indicated on the citation, to be paid
7 by persons who choose to prepay the civil penalty without appearing in District Court.

8 ~~Chapter~~ ~~806~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Acts~~ ~~of~~ ~~2018,~~ ~~as~~ ~~amended~~ ~~by~~ ~~Chapter~~ ~~606~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Acts~~ ~~of~~ ~~2023~~

9 ~~SECTION~~ ~~3.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act~~ ~~shall~~ ~~take~~ ~~effect~~
~~[It~~10 ~~October~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2018.~~ ~~shall~~ ~~remain~~ ~~effective~~ ~~for~~ ~~a~~ ~~period~~ ~~of~~ ~~10~~ ~~years~~ ~~and,~~ ~~at~~ ~~the~~ ~~end~~ ~~of~~
11 ~~September~~ ~~30,~~ ~~2028,~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act,~~ ~~with~~ ~~no~~ ~~further~~ ~~action~~ ~~required~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly,~~
~~effect.]~~12 ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~abrogated~~ ~~and~~ ~~of~~ ~~no~~ ~~further~~ ~~force~~ ~~and~~

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
14 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.