PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 325

F1 (5lr1908)
ENROLLED BILL
— Ways and Means/Education, Energy, and the Environment —
Introduced by Delegates Wims, Lehman, Palakovich Carr, Pena–Melnyk, Simmons,
Vogel, ~~and~~ ~~Wilkins~~ Wilkins, Atterbeary, Boyce, Ebersole, Fair, Feldmark,
Mireku–North, Patterson, Roberts, Roberson, Wells, Wu, and Young

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Adult Education – High School Diploma by Examination – Requirements and
3 Study

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Labor to allow an individual to
5 take all components of the General Educational Development Test in the same
6 language; requiring the Department to submit a certain report to certain committees
7 of the General Assembly on or before a certain date; and generally relating to
8 examination requirements for a high school diploma by examination.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Article – Labor and Employment
11 Section 11–808(a), (b), and (d)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0325*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 325

1 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

2 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
3 Article – Labor and Employment
4 Section 11–808(c)
5 Annotated Code of Maryland
6 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

7 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
8 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

9 Article – Labor and Employment

10 11–808.

11 (a) An individual may obtain a high school diploma by examination as provided
12 in this section if the individual:

13 (1) has not obtained a high school diploma;

14 (2) resides in this State; and

15 (3) except as provided in subsection (b) of this section:

16 (i) is not subject to compulsory school attendance under § 7–301 of
17 the Education Article; and

18 (ii) has withdrawn from a regular full–time public or private school
19 program.

20 (b) An individual is not subject to the requirements of subsection (a)(3) of this
21 section if the individual participates in a GED Option Program administered by the State
22 Department of Education that creates a pathway to a high school diploma by examination
23 for currently enrolled high school English language learner students under the age of 21
24 years who have experienced interrupted education and have a lower level of English
25 proficiency than their peers.

shall:26 (c) The Department

(1)27 offer examinations to individuals who are pursuing a high school
28 diploma under this subtitle at least twice each year at places throughout the State that are
applicants;29 reasonably convenient for the AND

(2)30 ALLOW AN INDIVIDUAL TO CHOOSE TO TAKE ALL COMPONENTS OF
~~ENGLISH~~ ~~SPANISH~~31 THE EXAMINATION IN ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~ ~~LANGUAGE~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 325 3

~~DEPARTMENT~~ ENGLISH1 ~~LANGUAGE~~ ~~EXAMINATIONS~~ ~~OFFERED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ EITHER OR
SPANISH.2

3 (d) The examination shall:

4 (1) be offered in appropriate high school subject areas; and

5 (2) be of a comprehensive nature as determined by the State Board of
6 Education.

7 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

8 (a) The Maryland Department of Labor shall:

9 (1) identify other appropriate languages in which to offer the General
10 Educational Development Test for adult learners in the State; and

11 (2) study the feasibility and cost of offering the examination in additional
12 languages.

13 (b) On or before December 1, 2026, the Department shall submit, in accordance
14 with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, a report of its findings and
15 recommendations from the study required under this section to the Senate Finance
16 Committee and the House Committee on Ways and Means.

17 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
18 ~~October~~ July 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.