PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 324

F1 5lr1735
CF SB 293

By: Delegates Korman and Atterbeary
Introduced and read first time: January 10, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 County Boards of Education – Antibias Training for Members – Requirement
3 (County Board Member Antibias Training Act)

4 FOR the purpose of requiring each member of a county board of education to complete
5 certain antibias training at least once during the member’s term; and generally
6 relating to antibias training for members of county boards of education.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 Article – Education
9 Section 6–129
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Education

15 6–129.

16 (a) (1) The Department shall develop guidelines for an antibias training
17 program for school employees.

18 (2) The guidelines developed under this subsection shall:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0324*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 324

1 (i) Be inclusive;

2 (ii) Incorporate lessons in cultural awareness;

3 (iii) Aim to reduce implicit bias;

4 (iv) Be culturally responsive to the needs of educators and students;

5 (v) Raise awareness of biases, prejudices, intolerances, and
6 discrimination faced by African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans and
7 Pacific Islanders, Hispanic Americans, and other historically marginalized racial and
8 ethnic minorities;

9 (vi) Combat prejudices faced by historically marginalized religious
10 minorities, including antisemitism and Islamophobia;

11 (vii) Seek to achieve schools that are more inclusive and tolerant of
12 students, faculty, and staff regardless of an individual’s race, national origin, marital
13 status, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, ancestry, physical attributes,
14 socioeconomic status, familial status, or disability; and

15 (viii) Be evidence–based.

16 (3) In developing the guidelines, the Department shall incorporate lessons
17 learned from real life incidents of discriminatory bullying, harassment, or intimidation
18 reported in accordance with § 7–424 of this article.

19 (4) The Department periodically shall update the guidelines required
20 under this subsection.

21 (b) (1) Each county board shall, in consultation with teachers and other public
22 school employees, develop an antibias training based on the guidelines developed under
23 subsection (a) of this section.

24 (2) If the county board has an antibias training in place before the
25 Department issues its guidelines, the county board shall, in consultation with teachers and
26 other public school employees, update its training to incorporate the practices identified in
27 the guidelines.

28 (c) (1) Every other year, each county board shall train each public school
29 employee whose job duties include frequent interaction with students using its antibias
30 training.

31 (2) Antibias training shall be job–embedded, paid professional
32 development training that is provided during nonteaching time.

33 (3) To the extent practicable, the training shall:

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 324 3

1 (i) Be offered in a peer–to–peer setting;

2 (ii) Take a half day or less to complete; and

3 (iii) Incorporate lessons learned from incidents of bullying,
4 harassment, or intimidation in the county, reported in accordance with § 7–424 of this
5 article.

(D) (1) AT MEMBER’S TERM,6 LEAST ONCE DURING THE EACH MEMBER OF
7 A COUNTY BOARD SHALL COMPLETE THE ANTIBIAS TRAINING DEVELOPED UNDER
(B) SECTION.8 SUBSECTION OF THIS

(2) THE9 TRAINING SHALL BE CONDUCTED SEPARATELY FROM THE
(C)10 PUBLIC SCHOOL EMPLOYEE TRAINING REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION.11

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
13 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.