PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 323

N2, D4 5lr1746
CF SB 286

By: Delegate Forbes
Introduced and read first time: January 10, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 18, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Domestic Partnership and Marriage – Required Information

3 FOR the purpose of clarifying certain requirements for registering a domestic partnership
4 or obtaining a marriage license; requiring a declaration of domestic partnership filed
5 with a register of wills to include the Social Security number of each domestic
6 partner who has a Social Security number; and generally relating to domestic
7 partnership and marriage.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Estates and Trusts
10 Section 2–214(a) and (d)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
14 Article – Family Law
15 Section 2–402
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
19 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

20 Article – Estates and Trusts

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0323*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 323

1 2–214.

2 (a) (1) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (2) of this subsection, two
3 individuals may register a domestic partnership by filing a declaration of domestic
4 partnership with the register of wills in the county in which the domestic partners are
5 domiciled.

6 (2) A declaration of domestic partnership filed with the register of wills
7 shall:

8 (i) Include:

9 1. The full name of each domestic partner;LEGAL

[and]10 2. The home address of each domestic partner;

[age]11 3. The of each domestic partner;DATE OF BIRTH AND

4. THE SOCIAL SECURITY12 NUMBER OF EACH PARTY WHO
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER;13 HAS A

14 (ii) Be signed directly by each party, or by another individual, at the
15 express direction of the party and in the party’s presence;

16 (iii) Be signed in the physical presence of a notary public or before a
17 notary public through communication technology in accordance with Title 18, Subtitle 2 of
18 the State Government Article; and

19 (iv) Affirm under penalty of perjury that each domestic partner is:

20 1. At least 18 years old;

21 2. The sole domestic partner of the other;

22 3. Not married; and

23 4. In a committed relationship with the other individual.

24 (d) (1) The register shall maintain adequate records of declarations of
25 domestic partnership, amendments to declarations of domestic partnership, and
26 termination statements.

[paragraph (3)] (3) (4)27 (2) Except as provided in ofPARAGRAPHS AND
28 this subsection, a declaration of domestic partnership filed with a register of wills is a public
29 record.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 323 3

1 (3) The register shall deny inspection of the part of a declaration of
2 domestic partnership that contains the home address of either domestic partner.

(4) EXCEPT § 4–334 GENERAL PROVISIONS3 AS PROVIDED IN OF THE
ARTICLE, SOCIAL SECURITY4 THE NUMBER OF A PARTY MAY NOT BE DISCLOSED AS
PARTNERSHIP.5 PART OF THE PUBLIC RECORD OF THE DECLARATION OF DOMESTIC

6 Article – Family Law

7 2–402.

8 (a) An applicant for a license may apply to the clerk only at the office of the clerk
9 during regular office hours.

[1]10 (b) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, to apply for a license,
11 of the parties to be married shall:ONE

12 (1) appear before the clerk and give, under oath, the following information,
13 which shall be placed on an application form by the clerk:

14 (i) the full name of each party;LEGAL

15 (ii) the place of residence of each party;

[age]16 (iii) the of each party;DATE OF BIRTH

17 (iv) whether the parties are related by blood or marriage and, if so,
18 in which degree of relationship;

19 (v) the marital status of each party; and

20 (vi) whether either party was married previously, and the date and
21 place of each death or judicial determination that ended any former marriage;

22 (2) sign the application form; and

23 (3) provide the clerk with:

24 (i) the Social Security number of each party who has a Social
25 Security number; and

26 (ii) a copy of an official government–issued birth certificate or other
27 official government–issued document or record demonstrating the age of each party.

28 (c) The Social Security numbers of the parties:

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 323

1 (1) shall be included in the electronic file for the marriage license
2 application; and

3 (2) except as provided in § 4–334 of the General Provisions Article, may not
4 be disclosed as part of the public record of the marriage license application.

(1)5 (d) If the parties to be married are not residents of the county where the
6 marriage ceremony is to be performed, the clerk shall accept, instead of the application
[1]7 specified in subsection (b) of this section, an affidavit from of the parties to beONE
8 married.

(2) (1)9 The affidavit REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
10 shall:SUBSECTION

[(1)] (I)11 contain the information required by subsection (b) of this section;
12 and

[(2)] (II)13 be sworn to under oath before a clerk or other comparable official
14 in the county, state, province, or country where the party resides.

15 (e) Until a license becomes effective, a clerk may not disclose the fact that an
16 application for a license has been made except to the parent or guardian of a party to be
17 married.

18 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
19 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.