START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 328

C7 (5lr1242)
ENROLLED BILL
— Ways and Means/Budget and Taxation —
Introduced by ~~Delegate~~ ~~Ebersole~~ Delegates Ebersole, Griffith, and Vogel

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 State Lottery – Instant Ticket Lottery Machines – Veterans’ and Fraternal
3 Organizations

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing the Director of the State Lottery and Gaming Control
5 Agency to issue certain fraternal organizations a license for not more than a certain
6 number of instant ticket lottery machines; altering the distribution of proceeds from
7 certain instant ticket lottery machine sales by veterans’ organizations; providing for
8 the distribution of proceeds from certain instant ticket lottery machine sales by
9 fraternal organizations; authorizing, instead of requiring, the Director to consider
10 certain information before issuing certain licenses; repealing a requirement that
11 certain veterans’ organizations purchase or lease certain instant ticket lottery
12 machines; prohibiting certain fraternal organizations from operating an instant
13 ticket lottery machine in certain locations; altering certain requirements concerning
14 the conduct of gaming through instant ticket lottery machines; and generally
15 relating to the operation of instant ticket lottery machines in the State.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0328*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 328

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – State Government
3 Section 9–112
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
7 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

8 Article – State Government

9 9–112.

10 (a) (1) In this section[, “veterans’] THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE
11 MEANINGS INDICATED.

12 (2) “ACTIVE MEMBERS” MEANS INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE RECOGNIZED
13 BY A FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION AS DUES–PAYING MEMBERS OR LIFETIME
14 MEMBERS.

15 (3) (I) “FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION” MEANS A NONPROFIT
16 ORGANIZATION THAT:

17 1. A. IS TAX EXEMPT AND ORGANIZED AS A
18 FRATERNAL OR SORORAL ORGANIZATION UNDER § 501(C)(7) OR § 501(C)(8) OF THE
19 INTERNAL REVENUE CODE;

20 B. OWNS OR LEASES A PROPERTY; AND

21 C. HAS A BONA FIDE MEMBERSHIP OF AT LEAST 300
22 ACTIVE MEMBERS OR HAS BEEN LOCATED IN A COUNTY IN WHICH SUBSECTION (D)
23 OF THIS SECTION APPLIES FOR AT LEAST 5 YEARS BEFORE THE ORGANIZATION
24 APPLIES FOR A LICENSE UNDER SUBSECTION (D) OF THIS SECTION; OR

25 2. IS INDEPENDENT AND THE MEMBERSHIP OF WHICH
26 COMPRISES SOLELY GRADUATE MEMBERS OF A NATIONWIDE FRATERNITY OR
27 SORORITY THAT IS TAX EXEMPT UNDER § 501(C)(7) OR § 501(C)(8) OF THE
28 INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.

29 (II) “FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION” DOES NOT INCLUDE:

30 1. ANY COLLEGE OR HIGH SCHOOL FRATERNITY OR
31 SORORITY; OR
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 328 3

1 2. ANY OTHER FRATERNITY OR SORORITY THE
2 MEMBERSHIP OF WHICH IS RESTRICTED IN WHOLE OR IN PART TO STUDENTS OR
3 GRADUATES OF AN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION OR A PROFESSIONAL SCHOOL.

4 (4) “VETERANS’ organization” means an organization that is tax exempt
5 and organized as a veterans’ organization under § 501(c)(19) or § 501(c)(4) of the Internal
6 Revenue Code.

7 (b) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, in accordance with the
8 regulations of the Agency and this subtitle, the Director shall issue licenses to the persons
9 and governmental units that will best serve the public convenience and promote the sale of
10 State lottery tickets or shares.

11 (c) Before issuing a license to an applicant, the Director [shall] MAY consider
12 such factors as:

13 (1) the financial responsibility and security of the applicant and the
14 business or activity of the applicant;

15 (2) the accessibility of the place of business or activity to the public;

16 (3) the sufficiency of existing licenses to serve the public convenience; and

17 (4) the volume of expected sales.

18 (d) (1) This subsection does not apply in:

19 (i) Caroline County;

20 (ii) Cecil County;

21 (iii) Dorchester County;

22 (iv) Kent County;

23 (v) Queen Anne’s County;

24 (vi) Somerset County;

25 (vii) Talbot County;

26 (viii) Wicomico County; and

27 (ix) Worcester County.
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 328

1 (2) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the Director may
2 issue a license under this subtitle for:

3 1. not more than five instant ticket lottery machines to an
4 applicant that is a veterans’ organization OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION; AND

5 2. NOT MORE THAN THREE INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY
6 MACHINES TO AN APPLICANT THAT IS A FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION.

7 (ii) A veterans’ organization OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION that
8 is issued a license under this subsection shall locate and operate its instant ticket lottery
9 machines at its principal meeting hall in the county in which the veterans’ organization OR
10 FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION is located.

11 (III) AS A RETAILER UNDER THE INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY
12 MACHINE PROGRAM, A VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION
13 SHALL BE COMPENSATED BASED ON A PERCENTAGE OF PROCEEDS.

14 (3) (I) After deduction of any [commission and] validation prize payout
15 as provided under § 9–117 of this subtitle, a veterans’ organization issued a license under
16 this subsection shall RETAIN 50% OF THE NET PROCEEDS AND credit the remaining
17 receipts NET PROCEEDS from the sale of tickets from instant ticket lottery machines to
18 the State Lottery Fund established under § 9–118 of this subtitle.

19 (II) ON A PROPERLY APPROVED TRANSMITTAL, THE AGENCY
20 SHALL PAY THE FOLLOWING AMOUNTS FROM THE NET PROCEEDS OF SALES OF
21 TICKETS FROM INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY MACHINES OPERATED BY A VETERANS’
22 ORGANIZATION:

23 1. 50% TO VETERANS’ ORGANIZATIONS 5% TO THE
24 MARYLAND VETERANS TRUST FUND ESTABLISHED UNDER § 9–913 OF THIS TITLE;

25 2. TO THE AGENCY, AN AMOUNT NECESSARY TO PAY FOR
26 THE PURCHASE OR LEASE OF THE INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY MACHINES AND
27 AGENCY ADMINISTRATION FEES FOR THE PROGRAM; AND

28 3. ANY REMAINING AMOUNT TO THE EDUCATION TRUST
29 FUND ESTABLISHED UNDER § 9–1A–30 OF THIS TITLE.

30 (III) AFTER DEDUCTION OF A VALIDATION PRIZE PAYOUT, A
31 FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION ISSUED A LICENSE UNDER THIS SUBSECTION SHALL
32 REMIT THE PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF TICKETS FROM INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY
33 MACHINES:
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 328 5

1 1. RETAIN 25% OF THE NET PROCEEDS FOR
2 UNDERGRADUATE, GRADUATE, OR TRADE SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIPS OR CAPITAL
3 IMPROVEMENTS, CAPITAL OUTLAYS, ACQUISITIONS, OR EXISTING COMMUNITY
4 OUTREACH PROGRAMS AND RESOURCES; AND

5 2. REMIT THE REMAINDER TO THE AGENCY TO BE
6 DISTRIBUTED AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH (IV) OF THIS PARAGRAPH.

7 (IV) ON A PROPERLY APPROVED TRANSMITTAL, THE AGENCY
8 SHALL PAY THE FOLLOWING AMOUNTS FROM THE NET PROCEEDS OF SALES OF
9 TICKETS FROM INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY MACHINES OPERATED BY A FRATERNAL
10 ORGANIZATION:

11 1. 20% TO THE HOMELESSNESS SOLUTIONS PROGRAM
12 IN THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, TO BE USED,
13 IN CONSULTATION WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AND MILITARY
14 FAMILIES, TO ASSIST VETERANS AND FAMILIES OF VETERANS, WITH PRIORITY
15 GIVEN TO:

16 A. WOMEN VETERANS WHO ARE HOMELESS OR AT RISK
17 OF HOMELESSNESS;

18 B. SINGLE–PARENT VETERAN FAMILIES; AND

19 C. VETERANS WHO ARE VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC
20 VIOLENCE; AND

21 2. FROM THE REMAINING PROCEEDS OF SALES OF
22 TICKETS FROM INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY MACHINES OPERATED BY A FRATERNAL
23 ORGANIZATION:

24 A. 25% TO THE FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION TO BE USED
25 FOR UNDERGRADUATE, GRADUATE, OR TRADE SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIPS OR CAPITAL
26 IMPROVEMENTS, CAPITAL OUTLAY, ACQUISITIONS, OR EXISTING COMMUNITY
27 OUTREACH PROGRAMS AND RESOURCES;

28 2. 5% TO THE MARYLAND VETERANS TRUST FUND
29 ESTABLISHED UNDER § 9–913 OF THIS TITLE;

30 B. 3. TO THE AGENCY, AN AMOUNT NECESSARY TO PAY FOR
31 THE PURCHASE OR LEASE OF THE INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY MACHINES AND
32 AGENCY ADMINISTRATION FEES FOR THE PROGRAM; AND
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 328

1 C. 4. ANY REMAINING AMOUNT TO THE EDUCATION TRUST
2 FUND ESTABLISHED UNDER § 9–1A–30 OF THIS TITLE.

3 (4) [(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, a veterans’
4 organization issued a license under this subsection shall purchase or lease the instant
5 ticket lottery machines to be used by the veterans’ organization.

6 (ii)] An organization may not use receipts NET PROCEEDS from the
7 sale of tickets from instant ticket lottery machines that would otherwise be [credited to the
8 State Lottery Fund] DISTRIBUTED AS REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH (3) OF THIS
9 SUBSECTION for the costs of purchasing or leasing instant ticket lottery machines.

10 (5) (I) The Director may adopt regulations to implement the provisions
11 of this subsection that include restricting the location of instant ticket lottery machines in
12 areas of a veterans’ organization’s OR A FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION’S public meeting
13 hall that is accessible to the public.

14 (II) A FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION MAY NOT LOCATE OR
15 OPERATE ITS INSTANT TICKET LOTTERY MACHINES IN A MEETING HALL THAT IS:

16 1. LOCATED ON OR AFFILIATED WITH THE CAMPUS OF
17 AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION; OR

18 2. LOCATED IN A BUILDING WHERE STUDENTS OF AN
19 INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION RESIDE.

20 (6) The Agency shall ensure that the element of chance in the conduct of
21 the gaming through the instant ticket lottery machines established under this subsection
22 is ~~consistent~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~holding~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~case~~ ~~of~~ ~~Chesapeake~~ ~~Amusements~~ ~~Inc.~~ ~~v.~~ ~~Riddle,~~ ~~363~~
23 Md. 16 (2001), in that the element of chance must be CONTAINED wholly within the
24 pre–printed PREDETERMINED instant lottery ticket, and that player enhancements in an
25 instant ticket lottery machine may not affect the element of chance ~~being~~ ~~wholly~~ ~~within~~ ~~the~~
26 ~~pre–printed~~ ~~instant~~ ~~lottery~~ ~~ticket.~~

27 (e) The Director may not issue a license to:

28 (1) a person or governmental unit to engage in business primarily as a
29 licensed agent; or

30 (2) an individual who is under the age of 21 years.

31 (f) The Commission may hear and decide an appeal of a denial of a license.

32 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
33 1, 2025.
END OF PAGE 6