PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 313

R4 5lr1254
CF SB 54

By: Delegate Korman
Introduced and read first time: January 10, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 2, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Motor Vehicles – Specially Designed Vintage Reproduction Registration Plates

3 FOR the purpose of repealing the time limitation within which the Motor Vehicle
4 Administration is required to make available specially designed vintage
5 reproduction registration plates; requiring the Administration to charge certain fees
6 for the initial issuance and renewal of specially designed vintage reproduction
7 registration plates; and generally relating to specially designed vintage reproduction
8 registration plates.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Transportation
11 Section 13–619.3
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Transportation

17 13–619.3.

18 (a) The Administration shall develop and make available for qualifying vehicles
19 a specially designed vintage reproduction registration plate.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0313*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 313

1 (b) The owner of a vehicle, or a lessee of the vehicle under a lease not intended as
2 security, or a director, an officer, an employee, or a partner of a business entity that owns
3 the vehicle considered eligible by the Administration may apply to the Administration for
4 a registration plate under this section if the vehicle is included in one of the following
5 classes:

6 (1) A Class A (passenger) vehicle;

7 (2) A Class E (truck) vehicle with a manufacturer’s rated capacity of 1 ton
8 or less;

9 (3) A Class L (historic) vehicle;

10 (4) A Class M (multipurpose) vehicle; or

11 (5) A Class N (street rod) vehicle.

(1)12 (c) In addition to the annual registration fee otherwise required under this
[when13 title, an owner of a vehicle assigned a registration plate under this section shall pay
14 initially issued the registration plate and each time the registration plate is renewed:

15 (1) A fee set by the Administration to recover the Administration’s costs
16 under this section; and

17 (2) A fee set by the Administration to be credited to the Gasoline and Motor
article]:18 Vehicle Revenue Account for distribution under § 8–403 or § 8–404 of this

(I) $100 PLATE;19 WHEN INITIALLY ISSUED THE REGISTRATION
20 AND

(II) $2521 RENEWED.EACH TIME THE REGISTRATION PLATE IS

(2) FEES BE:22 COLLECTED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION SHALL

(I) USED ADMINISTRATION’S23 TO RECOVER THE COSTS UNDER
SECTION;24 THIS AND

(II) CREDITED GASOLINE MOTOR VEHICLE25 TO THE AND
REVENUE ACCOUNT § 8–403 § 8–40426 FOR DISTRIBUTION UNDER OR OF THIS
ARTICLE.27

shall[:28 (d) The special registration plate issued under this section

29 (1) Be available for sale for 1 year from the date of initial issuance; and

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 313 3

Resemble]1 (2) the black lettering on yellow backgroundRESEMBLE
2 registration plate issued by the State for display on a motor vehicle in 1910.

3 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
4 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.