START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 415

F5, E4, E5 5lr1563
CF SB 378

By: Delegates Palakovich Carr and Amprey
Introduced and read first time: January 16, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 26, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 State Library Agency – Family Literacy Pilot Program – Establishment

3 FOR the purpose of establishing the Family Literacy Pilot Program administered by the
4 State Library Agency in consultation with the Department of Public Safety and
5 Correctional Services and the Correctional Education Council to enable certain
6 incarcerated individuals to read aloud to their children by preparing a recording;
7 requiring the State Library Agency to submit a certain report on or before a certain
8 date; and generally relating to the Family Literacy Pilot Program.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Article – Education
11 Section 23–101(a) and (c) and 23–103
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY adding to
15 Article – Education
16 Section 23–112
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

19 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
20 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

21 Article – Education

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0415*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 415

1 23–101.

2 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

3 (c) “State Library Agency” means the Maryland State Library Agency.

4 23–103.

5 There is a State Library Agency and a State Library Board. The State Library
6 Agency is the central State library agency.

7 23–112.

8 (A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
9 INDICATED.

10 (2) “CHILD” MEANS A BIOLOGICAL OR ADOPTED CHILD, A
11 STEPCHILD, A GRANDCHILD, OR A LEGAL WARD OF AN INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL.

12 (3) “PROGRAM” MEANS THE FAMILY LITERACY PILOT PROGRAM.

13 (B) THERE IS A FAMILY LITERACY PILOT PROGRAM.

14 (C) THE PURPOSE OF THE PROGRAM IS TO FOSTER FAMILY LITERACY AND
15 STRENGTHEN PARENT–CHILD RELATIONSHIPS BY PROVIDING CHILDREN’S BOOKS
16 IN STATE CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES TO INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS AND A
17 MEANS FOR AN INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL TO READ ALOUD TO THE
18 INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL’S CHILD.

19 (D) THE PROGRAM SHALL BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE LIBRARY
20 AGENCY.

21 (E) THE STATE LIBRARY AGENCY, IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
22 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORRECTIONAL SERVICES AND THE
23 CORRECTIONAL EDUCATION COUNCIL, SHALL SELECT FOUR STATE
24 CORRECTIONAL FACILITY LIBRARIES OR PRERELEASE CENTERS TO PARTICIPATE IN
25 THE PROGRAM THAT SHALL:

26 (1) REPRESENT EACH OF THE WESTERN, CENTRAL, AND EASTERN
27 REGIONS OF THE STATE;

28 (2) CONSIST OF AT LEAST ONE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY SERVING
29 FEMALE INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS; AND
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 415 3

1 (3) CONSIST OF AT LEAST ONE CORRECTIONAL FACILITY SERVING
2 MALE INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS.

3 (F) THE STATE LIBRARY AGENCY SHALL SELECT THE CHILDREN’S BOOKS
4 FOR USE IN THE PROGRAM INCLUDING CHILDREN’S BOOKS IN LANGUAGES OTHER
5 THAN ENGLISH.

6 (G) THE STATE LIBRARY AGENCY, IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
7 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORRECTIONAL SERVICES AND THE
8 CORRECTIONAL EDUCATION COUNCIL, SHALL:

9 (1) ESTABLISH A PROCESS TO SECURE WRITTEN PERMISSION TO
10 PARTICIPATE IN THE PROGRAM FROM THE CUSTODIAL PARENT OR GUARDIAN OF AN
11 INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL’S CHILD;

12 (2) ESTABLISH A PROCESS TO ASSIST AN INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL
13 IN SELECTING AN AGE–APPROPRIATE CHILDREN’S BOOK, PREPARING A RECORDING
14 OF THE INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL READING THE BOOK ALOUD, AND
15 DISTRIBUTING A COPY OF THE BOOK AND THE RECORDING TO THE INCARCERATED
16 INDIVIDUAL’S CHILD; AND

17 (3) ENSURE PARTICIPATION IN THE PROGRAM IS FREE OF CHARGE
18 FOR THE INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL, THE CHILD, AND THE CUSTODIAL PARENT OR
19 GUARDIAN.

20 (H) THE STATE LIBRARY AGENCY MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS NECESSARY
21 TO CARRY OUT THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SECTION.

22 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before December 1,
23 2028, the State Library Agency shall report to the General Assembly, in accordance with §
24 2–1257 of the State Government Article, on the results of the Family Literacy Pilot
25 Program.

26 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
27 October 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 3 years and 3 months and, at the
28 end of December 31, 2028, this Act, with no further action required by the General
29 Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.
END OF PAGE 3