PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 445

E1 (5lr0898)
ENROLLED BILL
— Judiciary/Judicial Proceedings —
Introduced by Delegate Hill

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Criminal Law – Interference With a Public Safety Answering Point – Penalties

3 FOR the purpose of prohibiting a person from taking certain actions with the intent to
4 interrupt or impair the functioning of a public safety answering point; ~~prohibiting~~ ~~a~~
5 ~~person~~ ~~from~~ ~~taking~~ ~~certain~~ ~~actions~~ ~~that~~ ~~interrupt~~ ~~or~~ ~~impair~~ ~~the~~ ~~functioning~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~
6 ~~public~~ ~~safety~~ ~~answering~~ ~~point;~~ and generally relating to public safety answering
7 points.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Criminal Law
10 Section 7–302(c) and (d)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0445*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 445

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Criminal Law

4 7–302.

5 (c) (1) A person may not intentionally, willfully, and without authorization:

6 (i) access, attempt to access, cause to be accessed, or exceed the
7 person’s authorized access to all or part of a computer network, computer control language,
8 computer, computer software, computer system, computer service, or computer database;
9 or

10 (ii) copy, attempt to copy, possess, or attempt to possess the contents
11 of all or part of a computer database accessed in violation of item (i) of this paragraph.

12 (2) A person may not commit an act prohibited by paragraph (1) of this
13 subsection with the intent to:

14 (i) cause the malfunction or interrupt the operation of all or any part
15 of a computer, computer network, computer control language, computer software, computer
16 system, computer service, or computer data; or

17 (ii) alter, damage, or destroy all or any part of data or a computer
18 program stored, maintained, or produced by a computer, computer network, computer
19 software, computer system, computer service, or computer database.

20 (3) A person may not intentionally, willfully, and without authorization:

21 (i) possess, identify, or attempt to identify a valid access code; or

22 (ii) publicize or distribute a valid access code to an unauthorized
23 person.

24 (4) A person may not commit an act prohibited under this subsection with
25 the intent to interrupt or impair the functioning of:

26 (i) the State government;

27 (ii) a service, device, or system related to the production,
28 transmission, delivery, or storage of electricity or natural gas in the State that is owned,
29 operated, or controlled by a person other than a public service company, as defined in §
30 1–101 of the Public Utilities Article;

31 (iii) a service provided in the State by a public service company, as
32 defined in § 1–101 of the Public Utilities Article;

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 445 3

1 (iv) a health care facility, as defined in § 18–338.1 of the
2 Health – General Article; or

3 (v) a public school, as defined in § 1–101 of the Education Article.

4 (5) (i) This paragraph does not apply to a person who has a bona fide
5 scientific, educational, governmental, testing, news, or other similar justification for
6 possessing ransomware.

7 (ii) A person may not knowingly possess ransomware with the intent
8 to use the ransomware for the purpose of introduction into the computer, computer
9 network, or computer system of another person without the authorization of the other
10 person.

(6) A11 PERSON MAY NOT COMMIT AN ACT PROHIBITED UNDER THIS
12 SUBSECTION WITH THE INTENT TO INTERRUPT OR IMPAIR THE FUNCTIONING OF A
POINT, § 1–301 PUBLIC SAFETY13 PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING AS DEFINED IN OF THE
ARTICLE.14

~~(7)~~ ~~A~~15 ~~PERSON~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~COMMIT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACT~~ ~~PROHIBITED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
16 ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~INTERRUPTS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~IMPAIRS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FUNCTIONING~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~
~~POINT,~~ ~~§~~ ~~1–301~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SAFETY~~17 ~~SAFETY~~ ~~ANSWERING~~ ~~AS~~ ~~DEFINED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ARTICLE.~~18

19 (d) (1) A person who violates subsection (c)(1) of this section is guilty of a
20 misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 3 years or a fine
21 not exceeding $1,000 or both.

22 (2) A person who violates subsection (c)(2) or (3) of this section:

23 (i) if the aggregate amount of the loss is $10,000 or more, is guilty
24 of a felony and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or a fine not
25 exceeding $10,000 or both; or

26 (ii) if the aggregate amount of the loss is less than $10,000, is guilty
27 of a misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 5 years or a
28 fine not exceeding $5,000 or both.

29 (3) A person who violates subsection (c)(4) of this section:

30 (i) if the aggregate amount of the loss is $10,000 or more, is guilty
31 of a felony and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or a fine not
32 exceeding $100,000 or both; or

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 445

1 (ii) if the aggregate amount of the loss is less than $10,000, is guilty
2 of a misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 5 years or a
3 fine not exceeding $25,000 or both.

4 (4) A person who violates subsection (c)(5) of this section is guilty of a
5 misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 2 years or a fine
6 not exceeding $5,000 or both.

(5) A (C)(6)7 PERSON WHO VIOLATES SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION IS
8 GUILTY OF A FELONY AND ON CONVICTION IS SUBJECT TO IMPRISONMENT NOT
5 $25,000 BOTH.9 EXCEEDING YEARS OR A FINE NOT EXCEEDING OR

~~(6)~~ ~~A~~ ~~(C)(7)~~10 ~~PERSON~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~VIOLATES~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~IS~~
11 ~~GUILTY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~FELONY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ON~~ ~~CONVICTION~~ ~~IS~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~IMPRISONMENT~~ ~~NOT~~
~~10~~ ~~$50,000~~ ~~BOTH.~~12 ~~EXCEEDING~~ ~~YEARS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~ ~~OR~~

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
14 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.