PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 450

R2 5lr1706

By: Delegates Guyton, Attar, Forbes, Griffith, Kaufman, Lehman, Miller, Pasteur,
Patterson, Pena–Melnyk, Ruth, Schindler, Spiegel, Taveras, Taylor, and
Wolek
Introduced and read first time: January 16, 2025
Assigned to: Appropriations and Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 4, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Maryland Transit Administration – Disability Reduced Fare Program – Renewal
3 for Permanently Disabled Individuals

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Transit Administration to automatically renew
5 the Disability Reduced Fare Program certification of an enrollee who is permanently
6 disabled; and generally relating to the Disability Reduced Fare Program.

7 BY adding to
8 Article – Transportation
9 Section 7–718
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Transportation

7–718.15

(A) THE ADMINISTRATION16 SHALL AUTOMATICALLY RENEW THE
DISABILITY REDUCED FARE PROGRAM17 CERTIFICATION OF AN ENROLLEE WHO IS
DISABLED.18 PERMANENTLY

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0450*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 450

(B) THE ADMINISTRATION1 SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS ESTABLISHING A
SECTION.2 PROCESS TO CARRY OUT THIS

3 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
4 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.