PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 485

E5, E4, L2 5lr1236

By: ~~Delegates~~ ~~T.~~ ~~Morgan,~~ ~~Crosby,~~ ~~and~~ ~~M.~~ ~~Morgan~~ St. Mary’s County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 20, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 1, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 St. Mary’s County – Corrections

3 FOR the purpose of adding programs that the St. Mary’s County Sheriff is authorized to
4 establish; repealing a requirement that the Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee collect
5 the earnings of a certain individual participating in a certain program; authorizing
6 the Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee to direct an individual participating in a certain
7 program to provide proof that the individual has made payments toward certain
8 obligations; and generally relating to corrections in St. Mary’s County.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Correctional Services
11 Section 11–720
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Correctional Services

17 11–720.

18 (a) This section applies only in St. Mary’s County.

19 (b) (1) The Sheriff may establish:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0485*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 485

1 (i) a home detention program;

(II) PROGRAM;2 A DAY REPORTING

[(ii)] (III)3 a work release program;

(IV) IN–PATIENT PROGRAM;4 AN TREATMENT

[(iii)] (V)5 a pretrial release program; andSUPERVISION

[(iv)] (VI)6 a prerelease program.

7 (2) (i) If the Sheriff establishes a program under this section, the
8 Sheriff shall adopt regulations necessary to implement each program established.

[incarcerated]9 (ii) If a condition that a court imposes on an
10 individual is inconsistent with a regulation adopted under this subsection, the condition
[incarcerated]11 imposed by the court controls as to that individual.

[sentencing]12 (c) (1) At the time of or at any timeA COURT PROCEEDING
[confinement]13 during an individual’s PROGRAM, the court mayPARTICIPATION IN A
14 allow the individual to participate in any program established under this section if the
15 individual:

[sentenced] COURT–ORDERED16 (i) is to the custody of the Sheriff;
17 and

[violation a]18 (ii) has no other charges for a felony or a of crime of
19 violence as defined in § 14–101 of the Criminal Law Article pending in any jurisdiction.

[incarcerated]20 (2) An individual who is participating in any program
[sentenced the]21 established under this section and who is to AUTHORIZED TO
22 St. Mary’s County Detention and Rehabilitation CenterPARTICIPATE IN A PROGRAM
[leave to], SHERIFF23 may the detention center WITH THE APPROVAL OF THE OR THE
SHERIFF’S24 DESIGNEE:

25 (i) continue regular employment;

26 (ii) seek new employment;

27 (iii) attend any court–ordered treatment appointments;

28 (iv) receive intensive counseling;

29 (v) obtain academic education; or

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 485 3

1 (vi) maximize use of other community resources or other similar
2 rehabilitative activities.

[(1)] [shall3 (d) The Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee collect the earnings of an
4 incarcerated individual participating in a program established under this section, less any
5 payroll deduction required by law.

6 (2) From the earnings of the incarcerated individual, the Sheriff may
7 deduct:

8 (i) the amount determined to be the cost to the county of providing
9 food, lodging, clothing, and transportation for the incarcerated individual;

10 (ii) actual and necessary food, travel, and other expenses incidental
program;]11 to the incarcerated individual’s participation in the MAY DIRECT AN
12 INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATING IN A PROGRAM ESTABLISHED UNDER THIS SECTION TO
13 PROVIDE PROOF THAT THE INDIVIDUAL HAS MADE PAYMENTS TOWARD ANY OF THE
OBLIGATIONS:14 FOLLOWING

[(iii)] (1) [incarcerated]15 an amount the individual is legally
[or desires]16 obligated to pay for the support of a dependent;

[(iv)17 if applicable, a reasonable amount to repay the State or the
and]18 county for an attorney appointed by the court;

[(v)] (2) restitution[.19 court–ordered payments for

20 (3) The Sheriff shall:

21 (i) credit to the incarcerated individual’s account any remaining
22 balance; and

23 (ii) dispose of the balance in the incarcerated individual’s account as
approves];24 the incarcerated individual requests and the Sheriff OR

(3) COURT–ORDERED25 FINES.FEES OR

[incarcerated]26 (e) (1) If an individual violates a trust or a condition that a
27 court or Sheriff has established for participating in any program established under this
28 section, the Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee shall notify the court in writing of the violation.

[incarcerated]29 (2) An individual who violates a trust or a condition that a
30 court or Sheriff has established for participating in any program established under this
31 section is subject to:

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 485

1 (i) removal from the program; and

[incarcerated]2 (ii) cancellation of any earned diminution of the
3 individual’s term of confinement.

4 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
5 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.