PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 420

J1, J2, F5 5lr1090
CF SB 459

By: Delegate Palakovich Carr
Introduced and read first time: January 16, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means and Health and Government Operations

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Education and Health – Emergency Use Epinephrine – Alterations

3 FOR the purpose of altering the defined term “auto–injectable epinephrine” to be
4 “emergency use epinephrine” and to include certain drug delivery devices and
5 products; altering the name of the Emergency Use Auto–Injectable Epinephrine
6 Program to be the Emergency Use Epinephrine Program; and generally relating to
7 emergency use epinephrine.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Education
10 Section 7–426.2, 7–426.3, and 9.5–117(a)(3) and (f)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
14 Article – Education
15 Section 9.5–117(a)(1)
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
19 Article – Health – General
20 Section 13–702, 13–704(e), 13–705, 13–706(a), 13–707(a) and (b), and 13–708(b); and
21 13–7A–01, 13–7A–02, 13–7A–03(a)(5), 13–7A–06, 13–7A–07(a) and (b),

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0420*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 420

1 13–7A–08(b), and 13–7A–09 to be under the amended subtitle “Subtitle 7A.
2 Emergency Use Epinephrine Program”
3 Annotated Code of Maryland
4 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

5 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
6 Article – Health Occupations
7 Section 14–5F–01(a) and 14–5F–04.1(a)(1)
8 Annotated Code of Maryland
9 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

10 BY repealing
11 Article – Health Occupations
12 Section 14–5F–01(c)
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

15 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
16 Article – Health Occupations
17 Section 14–5F–01(d) through (g), 14–5F–04.1(d)(1), and 14–5F–14(a)(5)
18 Annotated Code of Maryland
19 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

20 BY adding to
21 Article – Health Occupations
22 Section 14–5F–01(g)
23 Annotated Code of Maryland
24 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

25 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
26 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

27 Article – Education

28 7–426.2.

29 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

30 (2) “Anaphylaxis” means a sudden, severe, and potentially life–threatening
31 allergic reaction that occurs when an individual is exposed to an allergen.

[“Auto–injectable] “EMERGENCY32 (3) epinephrine” means a portable,USE
FOOD33 disposable drug delivery device OR PRODUCT APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION34 that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is
35 used to treat anaphylaxis in an emergency situation.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 420 3

1 (b) Each county board shall establish a policy for public schools within its
2 jurisdiction to authorize the school nurse and other school personnel to administer
[auto–injectable]3 epinephrine, if available, to a student who isEMERGENCY USE
4 determined to be or perceived to be in anaphylaxis, regardless of whether the student:

5 (1) Has been identified as having an anaphylactic allergy, as defined in §
6 7–426.1 of this subtitle; or

7 (2) Has a prescription for epinephrine as prescribed by an authorized
8 licensed health care practitioner under the Health Occupations Article.

9 (c) The policy established under subsection (b) of this section shall include:

10 (1) Training for school personnel on how to recognize the symptoms of
11 anaphylaxis;

[auto–injectable]12 (2) Procedures for the emergency administration of
13 epinephrine;EMERGENCY USE

14 (3) The proper follow–up emergency procedures;

15 (4) A provision authorizing a school nurse to obtain and store at a public
[auto–injectable]16 school epinephrine to be used in an emergencyEMERGENCY USE
17 situation; and

18 (5) A requirement that each public school develop and implement a method
19 for notifying the parents or guardians of students of the school’s policy under this section
20 at the beginning of each school year.

21 (d) Except for any willful or grossly negligent act, a school nurse or other school
22 personnel who respond in good faith to the anaphylactic reaction of a child in accordance
23 with this section may not be held personally liable for any act or omission in the course of
24 responding to the reaction.

25 (e) (1) Each public school shall submit, on the form that the Department
26 requires, a report to the Department on each incident at the school or at a related school
[auto–injectable]27 event that required the use of epinephrine.EMERGENCY USE

28 (2) The Department shall develop and disseminate a standard form to
[auto–injectable]29 report each incident requiring the use of epinephrineEMERGENCY USE
30 at a public school.

31 7–426.3.

32 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 420

1 (2) “Anaphylaxis” means a sudden, severe, and potentially life–threatening
2 allergic reaction that occurs when an individual is exposed to an allergen.

[“Auto–injectable] “EMERGENCY3 (3) epinephrine” means a portable,USE
FOOD4 disposable drug delivery device OR PRODUCT APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION5 that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is
6 used to treat anaphylaxis in an emergency situation.

7 (4) “School personnel” means individuals who are employed by a nonpublic
8 school, including part–time employees, teachers and substitute teachers employed by the
9 school for at least 7 days each school year, a school nurse, registered nurse case manager,
10 delegating nurse, and administrative staff.

11 (b) Each nonpublic school in the State may establish a policy authorizing school
[auto–injectable]12 personnel to administer epinephrine, if available, to aEMERGENCY USE
13 student who is determined to be or perceived to be in anaphylaxis, regardless of whether
14 the student:

15 (1) Has been identified as having an anaphylactic allergy, as defined in §
16 7–426.1 of this subtitle; or

17 (2) Has a prescription for epinephrine as prescribed by an authorized
18 licensed health care practitioner under the Health Occupations Article.

19 (c) The policy established under subsection (b) of this section shall include:

20 (1) Training for school personnel on how to recognize the signs and
21 symptoms of anaphylaxis by a licensed health care practitioner who is authorized to
[auto–injectable]22 administer epinephrine and who has been trained inEMERGENCY USE
23 an established protocol on how to recognize the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis;

[auto–injectable]24 (2) Procedures for the emergency administration of
25 epinephrine;EMERGENCY USE

26 (3) The proper follow–up emergency procedures;

27 (4) A provision authorizing a school nurse or other licensed health care
obtain, and[,]28 practitioner to school personnel to store, at a nonpublic school
[auto–injectable]29 epinephrine to be used in an emergency situation;EMERGENCY USE

30 (5) A requirement that the nonpublic school develop and implement a
31 method for notifying the parents or guardians of students of the school’s policy under this
32 section at the beginning of each school year; and

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 420 5

1 (6) An ongoing process for oversight and monitoring by a licensed health
2 care practitioner of the implementation of the policy established under subsection (b) of this
3 section.

4 (d) Except for any willful or grossly negligent act, school personnel who respond
5 in good faith to the anaphylactic reaction of a child in accordance with this section may not
6 be held personally liable for any act or omission in the course of responding to the reaction.

7 9.5–117.

8 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

[“Auto–injectable] “EMERGENCY9 (3) epinephrine” has the meaningUSE
10 stated in § 7–426.2 of this article.

11 (f) Except for any willfully or grossly negligent act, a child care provider or an
12 employee of a child care provider who responds in good faith to the anaphylactic reaction
13 of a child in accordance with the guidelines implemented under this section or by use of
[auto–injectable]14 epinephrine is immune from civil liability for any actEMERGENCY USE
15 or omission in the course of responding to the reaction.

16 Article – Health – General

17 13–702.

18 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

19 (b) “Agent” means an individual who:

20 (1) Is at least 18 years of age;

21 (2) Has successfully completed, at the expense of an applicant, an
22 educational training program approved by the Department; and

[auto–injectable]23 (3) Is appointed by a certificate holder to administer
24 epinephrine in accordance with the provisions of this subtitle.EMERGENCY USE

25 (c) “Anaphylaxis” means a sudden, severe, and potentially life–threatening
26 allergic reaction that occurs when an individual is exposed to an allergen.

[(d)27 “Auto–injectable epinephrine” means a portable, disposable drug delivery
28 device that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is used to treat
situation.]29 anaphylaxis in an emergency

[(e)] (D)30 “Certificate” means a certificate or an endorsement on the operating
31 certificate of a youth camp issued by the Department to an individual who operates a youth

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 420

1 camp under Title 14, Subtitle 4 of this article to obtain, store, and administer
[auto–injectable]2 epinephrine.EMERGENCY USE

[(f)] (E)3 “Certificate holder” means an individual who is authorized by the
[auto–injectable]4 Department to obtain, store, and administer EMERGENCY USE
5 epinephrine to be used in an emergency situation.

(F) “EMERGENCY EPINEPHRINE” PORTABLE,6 USE MEANS A DISPOSABLE
FOOD7 DRUG DELIVERY DEVICE OR PRODUCT APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION8 THAT CONTAINS A PREMEASURED SINGLE DOSE OF
SITUATION.9 EPINEPHRINE THAT IS USED TO TREAT ANAPHYLAXIS IN AN EMERGENCY

10 (g) “Program” means the Emergency and Allergy Treatment Program.

11 (h) “Registered nurse practitioner” has the meaning stated in § 8–101 of the
12 Health Occupations Article.

13 (i) “Youth camp” has the meaning stated in § 14–401 of this article.

14 13–704.

15 (e) An applicant shall have a written policy that includes:

16 (1) Authorization for the certificate holder or agent to administer
[auto–injectable]17 epinephrine, if available, to an individual who hasEMERGENCY USE
18 been determined to be or is believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis, whether or not the
19 individual:

20 (i) Has previously been known to have experienced anaphylaxis; or

21 (ii) Has a prescription for epinephrine prescribed by an authorized
22 health care practitioner licensed under the Health Occupations Article;

23 (2) A requirement that youth camp personnel complete training on how to
24 recognize the symptoms of anaphylaxis;

[auto–injectable]25 (3) Procedures for the emergency administration of
26 epinephrine;EMERGENCY USE

27 (4) Procedures for proper emergency follow–up;

28 (5) Authorization for a certificate holder to obtain and store
[auto–injectable]29 epinephrine to be used in an emergency; andEMERGENCY USE

PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 420 7

1 (6) A requirement that each certificate holder implement a method for
2 notifying the parent or guardian of a camper of the youth camp’s policy under this section
3 before the camper’s attendance.

4 13–705.

5 (a) (1) A registered nurse practitioner or a physician licensed to practice
[auto–injectable]6 medicine in the State may prescribe epinephrine inEMERGENCY USE
7 the name of a certificate holder.

8 (2) A registered nurse practitioner, a pharmacist licensed to practice
[auto–injectable]9 pharmacy in the State, or a physician may dispense EMERGENCY USE
10 epinephrine under a prescription issued to a certificate holder.

11 (b) A certificate holder may:

12 (1) On presentment of a certificate, receive from any registered nurse
13 practitioner or any physician licensed to practice medicine in the State a prescription for
[auto–injectable]14 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for theEMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]15 administration of epinephrine; andEMERGENCY USE

[auto–injectable]16 (2) Possess and store prescribed EMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]17 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for the administration of
18 epinephrine.EMERGENCY USE

19 (c) In an emergency situation when registered nurse practitioner, physician, or
20 emergency medical services are not immediately available, a certificate holder or agent may
[auto–injectable]21 administer epinephrine to an individual who isEMERGENCY USE
22 experiencing or believed in good faith by the certificate holder or agent to be experiencing
23 anaphylaxis.

24 13–706.

25 (a) A certificate holder shall submit to the Department, on a form required by the
26 Department, a report of each incident that occurs while the youth camp is in session that
[auto–injectable]27 required the administration of epinephrine.EMERGENCY USE

28 13–707.

29 (a) A cause of action may not arise against a certificate holder or agent authorized
30 under this subtitle for any act or omission when the certificate holder or agent is acting in
[auto–injectable]31 good faith while administering epinephrine to anEMERGENCY USE
32 individual experiencing or believed by the certificate holder or agent to be experiencing
33 anaphylaxis, except where the conduct of the certificate holder or agent amounts to gross
34 negligence, willful or wanton misconduct, or intentionally tortious conduct.

PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 420

1 (b) (1) A cause of action may not arise against any physician for any act or
[auto–injectable]2 omission when the physician in good faith prescribes or dispenses
3 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for the administration ofEMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]4 epinephrine to a person certified by the DepartmentEMERGENCY USE
5 under this subtitle.

6 (2) A cause of action may not arise against any pharmacist for any act or
[auto–injectable]7 omission when the pharmacist in good faith dispenses EMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]8 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for the administration of
9 epinephrine to a person certified by the Department under this subtitle.EMERGENCY USE

10 (3) A cause of action may not arise against any nurse practitioner for any
11 act or omission when the nurse practitioner in good faith prescribes or dispenses
[auto–injectable]12 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for theEMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]13 administration of epinephrine to a person certified byEMERGENCY USE
14 the Department under this subtitle.

15 13–708.

16 (b) An individual may not be held civilly liable in any action arising from or in
[auto–injectable]17 connection with the administration of epinephrine byEMERGENCY USE
18 the individual solely because the individual did not possess a certificate issued under this
19 subtitle.

[Auto–Injectable]20 Subtitle 7A. Emergency Use Epinephrine Program.

21 13–7A–01.

22 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

23 (b) “Agent” means an individual who:

24 (1) Is at least 18 years of age;

25 (2) Has successfully completed, at the expense of the participating facility,
26 an educational training program approved by the Department under § 13–7A–03 of this
27 subtitle; and

[auto–injectable]28 (3) Is designated by a certificate holder to administer
29 epinephrine in accordance with the provisions of this subtitle.EMERGENCY USE

30 (c) “Anaphylaxis” means a sudden, severe, and potentially life–threatening
31 allergic reaction that occurs when an individual is exposed to an allergen.

PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 420 9

[(d)1 “Auto–injectable epinephrine” means a portable, disposable drug delivery
2 device that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is used to treat
situation.]3 anaphylaxis in an emergency

[(e)] (D)4 “Certificate” means a certificate issued by the Department to an
[auto–injectable]5 individual to obtain, store, and administer EMERGENCY USE
6 epinephrine.

[(f)] (E)7 “Certificate holder” means an individual who is authorized by the
[auto–injectable]8 Department to obtain, store, and administer EMERGENCY USE
9 epinephrine to be used in an emergency situation.

[(g)] (F)10 “Eligible institution” means an institution of higher education that has
11 a food service facility or a recreation and wellness facility on the premises and that is
[auto–injectable]12 authorized under this subtitle to obtain and store EMERGENCY USE
13 epinephrine.

(G) “EMERGENCY EPINEPHRINE” PORTABLE,14 USE MEANS A DISPOSABLE
FOOD15 DRUG DELIVERY DEVICE OR PRODUCT APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION16 THAT CONTAINS A PREMEASURED SINGLE DOSE OF
SITUATION.17 EPINEPHRINE THAT IS USED TO TREAT ANAPHYLAXIS IN AN EMERGENCY

18 (h) “Food service facility” has the meaning indicated in § 21–301 of this article.

19 (i) “Participating facility” means a recreation or wellness facility at an eligible
20 institution or a food service facility, including a food service facility at an eligible
21 institution, in the State that voluntarily participates in the Program.

[Auto–Injectable]22 (j) “Program” means the Emergency Use Epinephrine
23 Program established under § 13–7A–02 of this subtitle.

24 13–7A–02.

[Auto–Injectable]25 (a) There is an Emergency Use Epinephrine Program.

26 (b) The purpose of the Program is to authorize individuals employed by a
[auto–injectable]27 participating facility to obtain and store epinephrineEMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]28 and administer epinephrine to individuals who areEMERGENCY USE
29 experiencing or are believed to be experiencing anaphylaxis when a physician or emergency
30 medical services are not immediately available.

31 (c) (1) Subject to paragraph (4) of this subsection, each participating facility
32 may obtain:

PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 420

[auto–injectable]1 (i) A prescription for a supply of EMERGENCY
2 epinephrine from a licensed physician as provided in § 13–7A–06 of this subtitle; andUSE

[auto–injectable]3 (ii) A supply of epinephrineEMERGENCY USE
4 from a licensed pharmacist or a licensed physician as provided in § 13–7A–06 of this
5 subtitle.

[auto–injectable]6 (2) Each participating facility shall store a supply of
7 epinephrine obtained under paragraph (1)(ii) of this subsection:EMERGENCY USE

8 (i) In accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions; and

9 (ii) In a location that is readily accessible to employees or affiliated
10 individuals in an emergency situation.

11 (3) Each participating facility shall designate the employees who are
12 certificate holders or designated affiliated individuals who are certificate holders who will
[auto–injectable]13 be responsible for the storage, maintenance, and control of the supply of
14 epinephrine.EMERGENCY USE

[auto–injectable]15 (4) A participating facility may not obtain or store
16 epinephrine unless the participating facility has at least two employeesEMERGENCY USE
17 or designated affiliated individuals who are certificate holders.

18 (5) Each participating facility shall maintain a copy of the certificate issued
19 to an employee or a designated affiliated individual under § 13–7A–05 of this subtitle.

20 13–7A–03.

21 (a) The Department shall:

22 (5) Develop a method by which certificate holders may submit a report to
23 the Department about each incident that occurred on the premises of a participating facility
[auto–injectable]24 that involved the administration of epinephrine by aEMERGENCY USE
25 certificate holder or an agent; and

26 13–7A–06.

27 (a) (1) A physician licensed to practice medicine in the State may prescribe
[auto–injectable]28 epinephrine in the name of a certificate holder.EMERGENCY USE

29 (2) A pharmacist licensed to practice pharmacy in the State or a physician
[auto–injectable]30 may dispense epinephrine under a prescription issuedEMERGENCY USE
31 to a certificate holder.

32 (b) A certificate holder may:

PAGE 11
HOUSE BILL 420 11

1 (1) On presentment of a certificate, receive from any physician licensed to
[auto–injectable]2 practice medicine in the State a prescription for EMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]3 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for the administration of
4 epinephrine; andEMERGENCY USE

[auto–injectable]5 (2) Possess and store prescribed EMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]6 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for the administration of
7 epinephrine.EMERGENCY USE

8 (c) In an emergency situation when a physician or emergency medical services
9 are not immediately available, a certificate holder or an agent may administer
[auto–injectable]10 epinephrine to an individual who is experiencing or isEMERGENCY USE
11 believed in good faith by the certificate holder or agent to be experiencing anaphylaxis.

12 13–7A–07.

13 (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a cause of action
14 may not arise against a certificate holder for any act or omission if the certificate holder or
[auto–injectable]15 agent is acting in good faith while administering EMERGENCY USE
16 epinephrine to an individual who is experiencing or believed by the certificate holder or
17 agent to be experiencing anaphylaxis except where the conduct of the certificate holder or
18 agent amounts to gross negligence, willful or wanton misconduct, or intentionally tortious
19 conduct.

20 (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection do not apply if a
21 certificate holder or participating facility that makes available, or a certificate holder who
[auto–injectable]22 administers, epinephrine to an individual who isEMERGENCY USE
23 experiencing or is believed by the certificate holder or participating facility to be
24 experiencing anaphylaxis:

25 (i) Fails to follow standards and procedures for storage and
[auto–injectable]26 administration of epinephrine; orEMERGENCY USE

[auto–injectable]27 (ii) Administers epinephrineEMERGENCY USE
28 that is beyond the manufacturer’s expiration date.

29 (b) (1) A cause of action may not arise against any physician for any act or
[auto–injectable]30 omission if the physician in good faith prescribes or dispenses
31 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for the administration ofEMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]32 epinephrine to a certificate holder or participatingEMERGENCY USE
33 facility under this subtitle.

34 (2) A cause of action may not arise against any pharmacist for any act or
[auto–injectable]35 omission if the pharmacist in good faith dispenses EMERGENCY USE
[auto–injectable]36 epinephrine and the necessary paraphernalia for the administration of

PAGE 12
12 HOUSE BILL 420

1 epinephrine to a certificate holder or a participating facility under thisEMERGENCY USE
2 subtitle.

3 13–7A–08.

4 (b) An individual may not be held civilly liable in any action arising from or in
[auto–injectable]5 connection with the administration of epinephrine byEMERGENCY USE
6 the individual solely because the individual did not possess a certificate issued under this
7 subtitle.

8 13–7A–09.

9 A certificate holder shall submit to the Department, in the manner required under §
10 13–7A–03 of this subtitle, a report of each incident that occurred on the premises of a
[auto–injectable]11 participating facility that involved the administration of EMERGENCY
12 epinephrine by a certificate holder or an agent.USE

13 Article – Health Occupations

14 14–5F–01.

15 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[(c)16 “Auto–injectable epinephrine” means a portable, disposable drug delivery
17 device that contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine that is used to treat
situation.]18 anaphylaxis in an emergency

[(d)] (C)19 “Board” means the State Board of Physicians.

[(e)] (D)20 “Committee” means the Naturopathic Medicine Advisory Committee.

[(f)] (E)21 “Council” means the Naturopathic Doctors Formulary Council.

[(g)] (F)22 (1) “Device” means a device used in the diagnosis, treatment, or
23 prevention of disease.

24 (2) “Device” does not include:

25 (i) Any surgical or dental instrument;

26 (ii) Any physical therapy equipment;

27 (iii) Any X–ray apparatus; or

28 (iv) Any component part or accessory of any of the items listed in
29 items (i) through (iii) of this paragraph.

PAGE 13
HOUSE BILL 420 13

(G) “EMERGENCY EPINEPHRINE” PORTABLE,1 USE MEANS A DISPOSABLE
FOOD2 DRUG DELIVERY DEVICE OR PRODUCT APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION3 THAT CONTAINS A PREMEASURED SINGLE DOSE OF
SITUATION.4 EPINEPHRINE THAT IS USED TO TREAT ANAPHYLAXIS IN AN EMERGENCY

5 14–5F–04.1.

6 (a) (1) There is a Naturopathic Doctors Formulary Council within the Board.

7 (d) (1) The formulary adopted by the Board shall include:

8 (i) Nonprescription drugs and devices;

[auto–injectable]9 (ii) Prescription oxygen and EMERGENCY USE
10 epinephrine; and

11 (iii) Prescription diaphragms and cervical caps for contraception.

12 14–5F–14.

13 (a) A license authorizes a licensee, consistent with naturopathic education and
14 training and competence demonstrated by passing the naturopathic physician licensing
15 examination, to:

[auto–injectable]16 (5) Administer epinephrine;EMERGENCY USE

17 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
18 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.