PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 478

F4, E4 (5lr1062)
ENROLLED BILL
— Judiciary/Judicial Proceedings —
Introduced by Washington County Delegation

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Hagerstown Community College Police Force – Jurisdiction

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing a Hagerstown Community College police officer to exercise
4 powers granted to a peace and police officer ~~within~~ ~~Washington~~ ~~County~~ under certain
5 circumstances; and generally relating to the Hagerstown Community College Police
6 Force.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 Article – Education
9 Section 16–407.1
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0478*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 478

1 Article – Education

2 16–407.1.

3 (a) There is a Hagerstown Community College Police Force.

4 (b) (1) A Hagerstown Community College police officer has the powers granted
5 to a peace and police officer.

[A] EXCEPT (II)6 (2) (i) AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH,7 Hagerstown Community College police officer may exercise these powersA
8 only on property that is owned, leased, operated by, or under the control of Hagerstown
9 Community College.

[not]10 (ii) The police officer may exercise these powers on any other
[unless] ~~WASHINGTON~~ ~~COUNTY~~11 property IF:~~WITHIN~~

12 1. Engaged in fresh pursuit of a suspected offender;

13 2. Necessary to facilitate the orderly flow of traffic to and
14 from property owned, leased, operated by, or under the control of Hagerstown Community
15 College; ~~or~~

Governor;16 3. Ordered to do so by the OR

4. IN WASHINGTON COUNTY WHEN:17

A. RESPONDING LIFE,18 TO AN IMMINENT THREAT TO
PROPERTY, SAFETY;19 OR PUBLIC OR

B. COMPLYING20 WITH A MEMORANDUM OF
HAGERSTOWN COMMUNITY COLLEGE POLICE21 UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE
FORCE22 JURISDICTION.AND ANOTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY WITH

23 (c) (1) In consultation with the Secretary of State Police and the Maryland
24 Police Training and Standards Commission, the Hagerstown Community College Board of
25 Trustees shall adopt standards, qualifications, and prerequisites of character, training,
26 education, human and public relations, and experience for Hagerstown Community College
27 police officers, including standards for the performance of their duties.

28 (2) To the extent practicable, the Board shall adopt standards that are
29 similar to the standards adopted for the Department of State Police.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 478 3

1 (d) The Hagerstown Community College Board of Trustees shall adopt
2 regulations governing the operation and conduct of the Hagerstown Community College
3 Police Force and of Hagerstown Community College police officers.

(E) NOTHING TO:4 IN THIS SECTION MAY BE CONSTRUED

(1) SUPERSEDE OF:5 THE AUTHORITY OR JURISDICTION

(I) THE WASHINGTON COUNTY SHERRIFF’S OFFICE;6 OR

(II) ANY AGENCY, §7 OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT AS DEFINED IN
1–101(C) PUBLIC SAFETY ARTICLE;8 OF THE OR

(2) LIMIT HAGERSTOWN9 THE AUTHORITY OR JURISDICTION OF THE
COMMUNITY COLLEGE POLICE FORCE § 5–80210 AUTHORIZED UNDER OF THE
CRIMINAL LAW ARTICLE.11

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
13 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.