PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 491

L2 5lr1274

By: ~~Delegates~~ ~~T.~~ ~~Morgan,~~ ~~Crosby,~~ ~~and~~ ~~M.~~ ~~Morgan~~ St. Mary’s County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 20, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 St. Mary’s County – Metropolitan Commission – Discontinuance of Service

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing the St. Mary’s County Metropolitan Commission to
4 discontinue all or part of water or sewer service provided to certain private properties
5 under certain circumstances; requiring the suspension of the ready–to–serve charge
6 on certain private properties in a certain manner; authorizing the St. Mary’s County
7 Metropolitan Commission to utilize certain remedies for a violation of certain rules
8 and regulations concerning certain public water and sewer use; and generally
9 relating to the discontinuance of water or sewer service provided by the St. Mary’s
10 County Metropolitan Commission.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
12 The Public Local Laws of St. Mary’s County
13 Section 113–13 and 113–21C.(1) and (2)
14 Article 19 – Public Local Laws of Maryland
15 (2007 Edition and 2022 Supplement, as amended)

16 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
17 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

18 Article 19 – St. Mary’s County

19 113–13.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0491*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 491

A.1 In addition to any other powers and penalties contained in this chapter, the
2 Metropolitan Commission may discontinue water and sewer service for nonpayment of any
3 service, connection, inspection, benefit or any other charge if not paid within thirty (30)
4 days of the due date.

B.5 In addition to payment of the bill, the Metropolitan Commission shall collect
6 a turn–off and turn–on charge before resuming service.

C. (1) THE METROPOLITAN COMMISSION7 MAY DISCONTINUE ALL OR
8 ANY PART OF WATER OR SEWER SERVICE PROVIDED TO AN IMPROVED PRIVATE
UNSAFE, UNFIT,9 PROPERTY DETERMINED TO BE OR UNSUITABLE FOR HUMAN
ACCIDENT, DISASTER, DISASTER.10 OCCUPANCY DUE TO AN ARTIFICIAL OR NATURAL

(2) WHEN SUBSECTION,11 SERVICE IS DISCONTINUED UNDER THIS THE
READY–TO–SERVE12 CHARGE FOR THE PROPERTY SHALL BE SUSPENDED AT THE TIME
RESTORED.13 OF DISCONTINUANCE AND REMAIN SUSPENDED UNTIL THE SERVICE IS

14 113–21.

15 C. (1) The Metropolitan Commission may utilize administrative enforcement
16 remedies or seek judicial enforcement remedies for a violation of any rules and regulations
17 the Metropolitan Commission may adopt under this chapter concerning public WATER AND
[public sewer] LINES,18 sewer use, including sewer drains, the installation of building AND
MAINS, APPURTENANCES, [the wastes]19 connections, and discharge of waters andALL
20 into the public sewer systems. The Metropolitan Commission shall establishDISCHARGES
21 procedures for implementing the enforcement remedies authorized under this subsection.

22 (2) The Metropolitan Commission may utilize administrative enforcement
23 remedies that may include:

24 (A) A notification of a violation;

25 (B) A consent order;

26 (C) A show cause hearing;

27 (D) A compliance order;

28 (E) A cease and desist order;

29 (F) An administrative fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
30 ($1,000.00) per violation, per day;

31 (G) An assessment for the reimbursement of actual costs incurred by
materials[,32 the Metropolitan Commission, including, but not limited to, time and if such
($1,000.00)];33 costs are less than one thousand dollars or

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 491 3

1 (H) An emergency suspension.

2 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
3 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.