PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 515

A2 5lr2819
CF SB 17

By: Delegates Rogers and Pruski
Introduced and read first time: January 22, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Anne Arundel County – Alcoholic Beverages Licenses – Veterans’ Organizations

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing a certain holder of a Class C beer, wine, and liquor license
4 in Anne Arundel County to convert the license to a Class C (veterans’ organization)
5 license; altering the annual license fee for a Class C (veterans’ organization) license;
6 authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Anne Arundel County to provide
7 application and administrative fee discounts to certain licensees and applicants;
8 authorizing the holder of a Class C (veterans’ organization) license to operate on
9 Sunday without obtaining a Sunday license; and generally relating to alcoholic
10 beverages licenses in Anne Arundel County.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
12 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
13 Section 11–102 and 11–903
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2024 Replacement Volume)

16 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
17 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
18 Section 11–1009 and 11–2004(c)
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2024 Replacement Volume)

21 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
22 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0515*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 515

1 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

2 11–102.

3 This title applies only in Anne Arundel County.

4 11–903.

5 (a) There is a Class C beer, wine, and liquor license.

6 (b) The license authorizes the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor at retail,
7 at a club at the place described in the license, for on–premises consumption.

8 (c) The annual license fee is $480.

9 11–1009.

10 (a) There is a Class C (veterans’ organization) license.

11 (b) The Board shall issue the license for use by a local unit of a nationwide
12 nonprofit organization or club that:

13 (1) is composed only of members who served in the armed forces of the
14 United States in a war in which the United States has been engaged;

15 (2) has a charter from a national veterans’ organization that was granted
16 before the application for the license was made;

17 (3) has a bona fide membership of at least 100 individuals and dues of at
18 least $5 per year per individual; and

19 (4) operates for its members and meets in a clubhouse principally used for
20 its members.

21 (c) The license authorizes the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor at retail
22 at the place described in the license for on–premises consumption.

23 (d) The license holder may sell beer, wine, and liquor during the hours and days
[beer, liquor] (VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION)24 as set out for a Class C wine, and license
25 under § 11–2004 of this title.

(E) (1) A CLASS C BEER, WINE,26 HOLDER OF A AND LIQUOR LICENSE
§ 11–903 VETERANS’27 ISSUED UNDER OF THIS TITLE THAT QUALIFIES AS A
(B)28 ORGANIZATION UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION MAY APPLY TO CONVERT
CLASS C (VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION) LICENSE.29 THE LICENSE TO A

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 515 3

(2) THE CLASS C (VETERANS’1 CONVERSION TO AND ISSUANCE OF A
ORGANIZATION) (1)2 LICENSE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION SHALL BE
LICENSE.3 CONSIDERED A LICENSE RENEWAL AND NOT AN ISSUANCE OF A NEW

[(e)] (F) (1) [$400] $300.4 The annual license fee is

(2) THE BOARD5 MAY PROVIDE APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE
THAT:6 FEE DISCOUNTS TO AN ORGANIZATION

(I) VETERANS’7 QUALIFIES AS A ORGANIZATION UNDER
(B) SECTION;8 SUBSECTION OF THIS AND

(II) 1. CLASS C (VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION)9 HOLDS A
LICENSE;10

2. CLASS C11 APPLIES FOR AN INITIAL OR RENEWAL
(VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION) LICENSE;12 OR

3. CLASS C BEER, WINE,13 HOLDS A AND LIQUOR LICENSE
CLASS C (VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION)14 THAT IS CONVERTED TO A LICENSE UNDER
(E) SECTION.15 SUBSECTION OF THIS

16 11–2004.

[A] EXCEPT (4)17 (c) (1) AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION,18 holder of a Class C beer, wine, and liquor license may sell beer, wine, andA
19 liquor on Monday through Saturday from 6 a.m. to 2 a.m. the following day.

[paragraph] (4)20 (2) Except as provided in (3) of thisPARAGRAPHS AND
21 subsection, the license holder may not sell beer, wine, or liquor after 2 a.m. on Sunday.

22 (3) The Board may issue to the license holder a Sunday license that
23 authorizes the sale of beer, wine, and liquor on Sunday according to terms that the license
24 states.

(4) A CLASS C (VETERANS’ ORGANIZATION)25 HOLDER OF A LICENSE
§ 11–1009 BEER, WINE, MONDAY26 UNDER OF THIS TITLE MAY SELL AND LIQUOR ON
SUNDAY 6 A.M. 2 A.M.27 THROUGH FROM TO THE FOLLOWING DAY WITHOUT
SUNDAY (3) SUBSECTION.28 OBTAINING A LICENSE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

[(4)] (5)29 The license holder may sell or provide beer, wine, and liquor at a
30 bar or counter on any day on which the sale of beer, wine, and liquor is allowed by law.

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 515

1 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
2 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.