PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 571

A2 5lr2536

By: Delegate Kipke
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Anne Arundel County – Alcoholic Beverages – Class C ~~(Veterans’~~ ~~Organization)~~
3 ~~License~~ ~~–~~ ~~Event~~ ~~Permit~~ Licenses – Events

4 FOR the purpose of ~~establishing~~ ~~an~~ ~~event~~ ~~permit~~ ~~in~~ ~~Anne~~ ~~Arundel~~ ~~County;~~ ~~authorizing~~ ~~the~~
5 ~~Board~~ ~~of~~ ~~License~~ ~~Commissioners~~ ~~for~~ ~~Anne~~ ~~Arundel~~ ~~County~~ ~~to~~ ~~issue~~ ~~an~~ ~~event~~ ~~permit~~
6 ~~only~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~holder~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~Class~~ ~~C~~ ~~(veterans’~~ ~~organization)~~ ~~license;~~ authorizing ~~the~~ ~~permit~~
7 a holder of certain Class C licenses in Anne Arundel County to sell beer, wine, and
8 liquor to certain individuals for on–premises consumption during events held at the
9 licensed premises; requiring an outside group to obtain a per diem license from the
10 Board of License Commissioners for Anne Arundel County if the outside group holds
11 an event hosted by the holder of a certain Class C license; and generally relating to
12 alcoholic beverages licenses in Anne Arundel County.

13 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
14 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
15 Section 11–102
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2024 Replacement Volume)

18 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
19 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
20 Section 11–903, 11–1006, and 11–1009
21 Annotated Code of Maryland
22 (2024 Replacement Volume)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0571*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 571

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

4 11–102.

5 This title applies only in Anne Arundel County.

6 11–903.

7 (a) There is a Class C beer, wine, and liquor license.

(1) [The] SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,8 (b) TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
9 license authorizes the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor at retail, at a club at the
consumption, INCLUDING:10 place described in the license, for on–premises

(I) PREMISES;11 DURING AN EVENT HELD ON THE LICENSED AND

(II) MEMBER.12 TO A MEMBER OF THE CLUB OR A GUEST OF THE

(2) IF13 THE LICENSE HOLDER HOSTS AN EVENT FOR AN OUTSIDE
GROUP, CLASS C BEER, WINE,14 THE OUTSIDE GROUP SHALL OBTAIN A PER DIEM AND
BOARD.15 LIQUOR LICENSE FROM THE

16 (c) The annual license fee is $480.

17 11–1006.

18 (a) There is a Class C (fraternal/sororal) organization license.

19 (b) The Board may issue the license for use by a local unit of a lodge, political
20 organization, or chapter of a nonprofit and nationwide fraternal or service organization
21 that:

22 (1) is composed only of inducted members;

23 (2) was operating in the county before the license application was made;

24 (3) has a membership of at least 100 individuals and dues of at least $5 per
25 year per individual; and

26 (4) owns and operates a home or clubhouse that is principally for the use
27 of its members and guests when accompanied by members.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 571 3

(1) [The] SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,1 (c) TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
2 license authorizes the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor at retail for on–premises
consumption, PREMISES,3 to:INCLUDING DURING AN EVENT HELD ON THE LICENSED

[(1)] (I)4 a member of the local unit for which the license was issued; or

[(2)] (II)5 a member’s guest when accompanied by the member.

(2) IF6 THE LICENSE HOLDER HOSTS AN EVENT FOR AN OUTSIDE
GROUP, CLASS C BEER, WINE,7 THE OUTSIDE GROUP SHALL OBTAIN A PER DIEM AND
BOARD.8 LIQUOR LICENSE FROM THE

9 (d) The license holder may sell beer, wine, and liquor during the hours and days
10 as set out for a Class C beer, wine, and liquor license under § 11–2004 of this title.

11 (e) The annual license fee is $400.

12 11–1009.

13 (a) There is a Class C (veterans’ organization) license.

14 (b) The Board shall issue the license for use by a local unit of a nationwide
15 nonprofit organization or club that:

16 (1) is composed only of members who served in the armed forces of the
17 United States in a war in which the United States has been engaged;

18 (2) has a charter from a national veterans’ organization that was granted
19 before the application for the license was made;

20 (3) has a bona fide membership of at least 100 individuals and dues of at
21 least $5 per year per individual; and

22 (4) operates for its members and meets in a clubhouse principally used for
23 its members.

(1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,24 (c) ~~The~~ TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
25 license authorizes the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor at retail at the place
consumption, INCLUDING:26 described in the license for on–premises

(I) PREMISES;27 DURING AN EVENT HELD ON THE LICENSED AND

(II) VETERANS’28 TO A MEMBER OF THE ORGANIZATION OR A
29 MEMBER.GUEST OF THE

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 571

(2) IF1 THE LICENSE HOLDER HOSTS AN EVENT FOR AN OUTSIDE
GROUP, CLASS C BEER, WINE,2 THE OUTSIDE GROUP SHALL OBTAIN A PER DIEM AND
BOARD.3 LIQUOR LICENSE FROM THE

4 (d) The license holder may sell beer, wine, and liquor during the hours and days
5 as set out for a Class C beer, wine, and liquor license under § 11–2004 of this title.

6 (e) The annual license fee is $400.

~~(F)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~THERE~~ ~~PERMIT.~~7 ~~IS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EVENT~~

~~(2)~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BOARD~~8 ~~MAY~~ ~~ISSUE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERMIT~~ ~~ONLY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~OF~~
~~CLASS~~ ~~C~~ ~~(VETERANS’~~ ~~ORGANIZATION)~~9 ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~10

~~(II)~~ ~~AN~~11 ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERMIT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~COMPLETE~~ ~~THE~~
~~BOARD~~ ~~PROVIDES.~~12 ~~FORM~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~

~~(3)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CLASS~~ ~~C~~13 ~~PERMIT~~ ~~AUTHORIZES~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~
~~(VETERANS’~~ ~~ORGANIZATION)~~14 ~~LICENSE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~SELL~~ ~~ALCOHOLIC~~ ~~BEVERAGES~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~ARE~~
~~LICENSE:~~15 ~~ALLOWED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~PREMISES;~~16 ~~DURING~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EVENT~~ ~~HELD~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSED~~

~~(II)~~ ~~EVENT,~~17 ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~ATTENDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~AN~~
~~VETERANS’~~ ~~ORGANIZATION;~~18 ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(III)~~ ~~ON–PREMISES~~ ~~CONSUMPTION.~~19 ~~FOR~~

~~(4)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~$100.~~20 ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~PERMIT~~ ~~FEE~~ ~~IS~~

21 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
22 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.