PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 574

A2 5lr1232

By: St. Mary’s County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 St. Mary’s County – Alcoholic Beverages Licenses – Multiple Licensing Plans

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for St. Mary’s County
4 to issue not more than a certain number of Class B beer, wine, and liquor restaurant
5 licenses to a person under certain circumstances; prohibiting a person from having
6 a direct or indirect interest in more than a certain number of Class B beer, wine, and
7 liquor restaurant licenses; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in
8 St. Mary’s County.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
11 Section 28–102
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2024 Replacement Volume)

14 BY adding to
15 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
16 Section 28–1606
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2024 Replacement Volume)

19 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
20 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

21 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0574*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 574

1 28–102.

2 This title applies only in St. Mary’s County.

28–1606.3

(A) (1) SUBJECT (B) (C) SECTION,4 TO SUBSECTIONS AND OF THIS THE
BOARD5 MAY ISSUE TO AN INDIVIDUAL OR FOR THE USE OF A PERSON NOT MORE
CLASS B BEER, WINE, LICENSES.6 THAN THREE AND LIQUOR RESTAURANT

(2) THE (1)7 LICENSES SPECIFIED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
PREMISES.8 SUBSECTION ARE FOR SEPARATE

(3) ONLY (1)9 ONE OF THE LICENSES SPECIFIED IN PARAGRAPH OF
OFF–PREMISES10 THIS SUBSECTION MAY AUTHORIZE THE SALE OF ALCOHOL FOR
CONSUMPTION.11

(B) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,12 TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A PERSON
CLASS B13 MAY NOT HAVE A DIRECT OR INDIRECT INTEREST IN MORE THAN THREE
BEER, WINE, LICENSES.14 AND LIQUOR RESTAURANT

(2) A15 PERSON MAY NOT HAVE A DIRECT OR INDIRECT INTEREST IN
CLASS B BEER, WINE,16 MORE THAN ONE AND LIQUOR RESTAURANT LICENSE ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~
OFF–PREMISES17 ~~LICENSE~~ THAT AUTHORIZES THE SALE OF ALCOHOL FOR
CONSUMPTION.18

(C) AN19 INDIRECT INTEREST IS PRESUMED TO EXIST BETWEEN ANY
20 COMBINATION OF PERSONS IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS EXIST
THEM:21 BETWEEN

(1) COMPANY;22 A COMMON PARENT

(2) AGREEMENT;23 A FRANCHISE

(3) AGREEMENT;24 A LICENSING

(4) AGREEMENT;25 A CONCESSION

(5)26 DUAL MEMBERSHIP IN A CHAIN OF BUSINESSES COMMONLY
OPERATED;27 OWNED AND

(6) (I) DIRECTORS, STOCKHOLDERS, PARTNERS,28 A SHARING OF OR
MEMBERS;29 OR

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 574 3

(II) DIRECTORS, STOCKHOLDERS, PARTNERS,1 A SHARING OF OR
SUBSIDIARIES;2 MEMBERS OF PARENTS OR

(7)3 COMMON DIRECT OR INDIRECT SHARING OF PROFIT FROM THE
BEVERAGES;4 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC OR

(8) NAME, TRADEMARK, LOGO,5 A SHARING OF A COMMON TRADE OR
PUBLIC.6 THEME OR MODE OF OPERATION IDENTIFIABLE BY THE

7 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
8 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.