PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 538

O1, O2 5lr2208
CF SB 445

By: Delegates Shetty, Forbes, Harris, Hinebaugh, Kaufman, Lehman, J. Lewis,
Pena–Melnyk, Solomon, Spiegel, Stonko, and Wells
Introduced and read first time: January 22, 2025
Assigned to: Appropriations

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 11, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Department of Human Services – Federal Commodity Supplemental Food
3 Program – Administration

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the Family Investment Administration in the Department of
5 Human Services to be the central coordinating and directing agency of the federal
6 Commodity Supplemental Food Program using certain funds and resources;
7 repealing the requirement that the Secretary of Aging administer the Program; and
8 generally relating to the federal Commodity Supplemental Food Program.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Human Services
11 Section 5–205(a) and 10–204(a)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Human Services

17 5–205.

18 (a) The Administration shall be the central coordinating and directing agency of
19 all public assistance programs in the State, including:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0538*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 538

1 (1) the Family Investment Program and related cash benefit programs;

2 (2) public assistance to adults;

3 (3) emergency assistance;

4 (4) food stamps;

5 (5) medical assistance eligibility determinations;

6 (6) the Energy Assistance Program;

[and]7 (7) the Temporary Disability Assistance Program;

(8) COMMODITY SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM8 THE FEDERAL
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT9 WITH FUNDS AND RESOURCES RECEIVED FROM THE
AGRICULTURE 7 C.F.R. 247;10 OF UNDER AND

[(8)] (9)11 any other public assistance activities financed wholly or partly
12 by the Administration.

13 10–204.

administer[:14 (a) The Secretary shall

(1)]15 the programs and activities that the federal government delegates to
16 the State under the Older Americans Act of 1965 that are not otherwise committed by law
government[;17 to another unit of State and

18 (2) the federal Commodity Supplemental Food Program with funds and
247].19 resources received from the United States Department of Agriculture under 7 C.F.R.

20 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
21 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.