START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 586

G1 (5lr0877)
ENROLLED BILL
— Ways and Means/Education, Energy, and the Environment —
Introduced by Delegate D. Jones

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Election Law – Election Judges – Compensation

3 FOR the purpose of requiring a local board of elections to pay an election judge
4 compensation for completing a certain course of instruction only after the election
5 judge actually serves an election day or early voting day; authorizing a public school
6 student in the State to ~~both~~ earn hours toward the service–learning graduation
7 requirement ~~and~~ or receive election judge compensation for service as an election
8 judge; and generally relating to election judges.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Election Law
11 Section 10–205
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0586*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 586

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Election Law

4 10–205.

5 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

6 (2) “Compensation” includes stipends for transportation, training, and
7 bonus payments.

8 (3) “Returning election judge” means an election judge who has served a
9 term of office for the immediately preceding statewide election.

10 (b) (1) (i) The county governing body shall provide sufficient funding to
11 meet the minimum compensation levels required under this section.

12 (ii) Within the limits authorized by the county governing body, a
13 local board may fix the compensation of election judges above the minimum compensation
14 levels required under this section.

15 (2) A local board shall pay an election judge for:

16 (i) SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH (4)(II) OF THIS SUBSECTION, each
17 course of instruction required under § 10–206(g)(1) of this subtitle that the election judge
18 completes; and

19 (ii) each election day and each early voting day that the election
20 judge actually serves.

21 (3) (i) For each election judge who is not a returning election judge, the
22 compensation for each election day and each early voting day actually served shall be at
23 least $250 per day.

24 (ii) For each returning election judge, the compensation for each
25 election day and each early voting day actually served shall be at least $100 more per day
26 than the compensation provided to an election judge who is not a returning election judge.

27 (4) (I) The compensation for each completed course of instruction
28 required under § 10–206(g)(1) of this subtitle shall be at least $50.

29 (II) A LOCAL BOARD SHALL PAY AN ELECTION JUDGE THE
30 COMPENSATION REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH (2)(I) OF THIS SUBSECTION ONLY
31 AFTER THE ELECTION JUDGE ACTUALLY SERVES AN ELECTION DAY OR EARLY
32 VOTING DAY.
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 586 3

1 (c) The State Board shall reimburse each local board for $50 of the additional
2 compensation required under subsection (b)(3)(ii) of this section that is paid to each
3 returning election judge.

4 (D) FOR SERVICE AS AN ELECTION JUDGE, A PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENT IN
5 THE STATE MAY BOTH:

6 (1) EARN HOURS TOWARD THE SERVICE–LEARNING REQUIREMENT
7 FOR GRADUATION UNDER COMAR 13A.03.02.05; AND OR

8 (2) RECEIVE THE ELECTION JUDGE COMPENSATION UNDER THIS
9 SECTION.

10 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
11 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 3