PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 533

D4, E2 5lr1324
CF SB 273

By: Delegate Crutchfield
Introduced and read first time: January 22, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Peace Orders and Protective Orders – Military Protection Orders

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing a judge to consider whether a military protection order has
4 been issued against a respondent when determining whether to grant a temporary
5 peace order or a temporary protective order; requiring a law enforcement officer to
6 notify a certain law enforcement agency that an individual may have violated a
7 military protection order under certain circumstances; and generally relating to
8 peace orders and protective orders.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
11 Section 3–1501, 3–1504(a)(1), and 3–1508
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
15 Article – Family Law
16 Section 4–501, 4–505(a)(1), and 4–509
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

19 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
20 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

21 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0533*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 533

1 3–1501.

2 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

3 (b) “Commissioner” means a District Court commissioner appointed in
4 accordance with Article IV, § 41G of the Maryland Constitution.

5 (c) “Court” means the District Court of Maryland.

6 (d) “Employee” means:

7 (1) An individual who is employed by an employer; or

8 (2) A volunteer or an independent contractor who performs services for an
9 employer at the employer’s workplace.

10 (e) (1) “Employer” means a person engaged in a business, an industry, a
11 profession, a trade, or any other enterprise in the State.

12 (2) “Employer” includes a person that acts directly or indirectly in the
13 interest of another employer with an employee.

14 (f) “Final peace order” means a peace order issued by a judge under § 3–1505 of
15 this subtitle.

16 (g) “Interim peace order” means an order that a commissioner issues under this
17 subtitle pending a hearing by a judge on a petition.

(H) “MILITARY ORDER”18 PROTECTION MEANS A PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED
10 U.S.C. § 156719 IN ACCORDANCE WITH BY A COMMANDING OFFICER AGAINST A
OFFICER’S IN:20 PERSON UNDER THE COMMAND

(1) ANY UNITED21 BRANCH OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES OF THE
STATES;22

(2) THE MARYLAND NATIONAL GUARD;23 OR

(3) THE STATE.24 NATIONAL GUARD OF ANY OTHER

[(h)] (I)25 “Petitioner” means an individual who files a petition under § 3–1503 of
26 this subtitle.

[(i)] (J)27 “Residence” includes the yard, grounds, outbuildings, and common
28 areas surrounding the residence.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 533 3

[(j)] (K)1 “Respondent” means an individual alleged in a petition to have
2 committed an act specified in § 3–1503(a) of this subtitle against a petitioner or a
3 petitioner’s employee.

[(k)] (L)4 “Temporary peace order” means a peace order issued by a judge under
5 § 3–1504 of this subtitle.

6 3–1504.

(I)7 (a) (1) If after a hearing on a petition, whether ex parte or otherwise, a
8 judge finds that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the respondent has committed,
9 and is likely to commit in the future, an act specified in § 3–1503(a) of this subtitle against
10 the petitioner or the petitioner’s employee, the judge may issue a temporary peace order to
11 protect the petitioner or the petitioner’s employee.

(II) IN12 DETERMINING WHETHER THERE ARE REASONABLE
COMMITTED,13 GROUNDS TO BELIEVE THAT A RESPONDENT HAS AND IS LIKELY TO
FUTURE, § 3–1503(A)14 COMMIT IN THE AN ACT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS SUBTITLE
PETITIONER’S EMPLOYEE,15 AGAINST THE PETITIONER OR THE THE JUDGE MAY
16 CONSIDER WHETHER A MILITARY PROTECTION ORDER HAS BEEN ISSUED AGAINST
17 THE RESPONDENT FOR THE SAME OR SIMILAR CONDUCT AGAINST THE SAME
PETITIONER’S EMPLOYEE.18 PETITIONER OR THE

19 3–1508.

20 (a) An individual who fails to comply with the relief granted in an interim peace
21 order under § 3–1503.1 of this subtitle, a temporary peace order under § 3–1504(a)(2) of
22 this subtitle, or a final peace order under § 3–1505(d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this subtitle
23 is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction is subject to:

24 (1) For a first offense, a fine not exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment not
25 exceeding 90 days or both; and

26 (2) For a second or subsequent offense, a fine not exceeding $2,500 or
27 imprisonment not exceeding 1 year or both.

28 (b) For the purpose of second or subsequent offender penalties provided under
29 subsection (a)(2) of this section, a prior conviction under § 4–509 of the Family Law Article
30 shall be considered a conviction under this section.

(1)31 (c) A law enforcement officer shall arrest with or without a warrant and
32 take into custody an individual who the officer has probable cause to believe is in violation
33 of an interim peace order, temporary peace order, or final peace order in effect at the time
34 of the violation.

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 533

(2) IF1 A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER HAS PROBABLE CAUSE TO
(1)2 BELIEVE THAT AN INDIVIDUAL DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
3 IS A SERVICE MEMBER IN VIOLATION OF A MILITARY PROTECTION ORDER ENTERED
FEDERAL BUREAU INVESTIGATION’S NATIONAL CRIME INFORMATION4 INTO THE OF
CENTER DATABASE,5 THE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER SHALL NOTIFY THE LAW
6 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY THAT ENTERED THE MILITARY PROTECTION ORDER INTO
7 THE DATABASE THAT THE SERVICE MEMBER MAY HAVE VIOLATED THE MILITARY
ORDER.8 PROTECTION

9 Article – Family Law

10 4–501.

11 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

12 (b) (1) “Abuse” means any of the following acts:

13 (i) an act that causes serious bodily harm;

14 (ii) an act that places a person eligible for relief in fear of imminent
15 serious bodily harm;

16 (iii) assault in any degree;

17 (iv) rape or sexual offense under § 3–303, § 3–304, § 3–307, or §
18 3–308 of the Criminal Law Article or attempted rape or sexual offense in any degree;

19 (v) false imprisonment;

20 (vi) stalking under § 3–802 of the Criminal Law Article; or

21 (vii) revenge porn under § 3–809 of the Criminal Law Article.

22 (2) (i) If the person for whom relief is sought is a child, “abuse” may
23 also include abuse of a child, as defined in Title 5, Subtitle 7 of this article.

24 (ii) Nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to prohibit reasonable
25 punishment, including reasonable corporal punishment, in light of the age and condition of
26 the child, from being performed by a parent or stepparent of the child.

27 (3) If the person for whom relief is sought is a vulnerable adult, “abuse”
28 may also include abuse of a vulnerable adult, as defined in Title 14, Subtitle 1 of this article.

29 (c) “Child care provider” means a person that provides supervision and care for a
30 minor child.

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 533 5

1 (d) “Cohabitant” means a person who has had a sexual relationship with the
2 respondent and resided with the respondent in the home for a period of at least 90 days
3 within 1 year before the filing of the petition.

4 (e) “Commissioner” means a District Court Commissioner appointed in
5 accordance with Article IV, § 41G of the Maryland Constitution.

6 (f) “Court” means the District Court or a circuit court in this State.

7 (g) “Emergency family maintenance” means a monetary award given to or for a
8 person eligible for relief to whom the respondent has a duty of support under this article
9 based on:

10 (1) the financial needs of the person eligible for relief; and

11 (2) the resources available to the person eligible for relief and the
12 respondent.

13 (h) “Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Governor’s Office of
14 Crime Prevention and Policy.

15 (i) “Final protective order” means a protective order issued under § 4–506 of this
16 subtitle.

17 (j) “Home” means the property in this State that:

18 (1) is the principal residence of a person eligible for relief; and

19 (2) is owned, rented, or leased by the person eligible for relief or respondent
20 or, in a petition alleging child abuse or abuse of a vulnerable adult, an adult living in the
21 home at the time of a proceeding under this subtitle.

22 (k) “Interim protective order” means an order that a Commissioner issues under
23 this subtitle pending a hearing by a judge on a petition.

24 (l) “Local department” means the local department that has jurisdiction in the
25 county:

26 (1) where the home is located; or

27 (2) if different, where the abuse is alleged to have taken place.

“MILITARY ORDER”28 (m) PROTECTION MEANS A PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED
10 U.S.C. § 156729 IN ACCORDANCE WITH BY A COMMANDING OFFICER AGAINST A
OFFICER’S IN:30 PERSON UNDER SUCH COMMAND

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 533

(1) UNITED1 ANY BRANCH OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES OF THE
STATES;2

(2) MARYLAND NATIONAL GUARD;3 THE OR

(3) STATE.4 THE NATIONAL GUARD OF ANY OTHER

(N)5 “Person eligible for relief” includes:

6 (1) the current or former spouse of the respondent;

7 (2) a cohabitant of the respondent;

8 (3) a person related to the respondent by blood, marriage, or adoption;

9 (4) a parent, stepparent, child, or stepchild of the respondent or the person
10 eligible for relief who resides or resided with the respondent or person eligible for relief for
11 at least 90 days within 1 year before the filing of the petition;

12 (5) a vulnerable adult;

13 (6) an individual who has a child in common with the respondent;

14 (7) an individual who has had a sexual relationship with the respondent
15 within 1 year before the filing of the petition; and

16 (8) an individual who alleges that the respondent committed, within 6
17 months before the filing of the petition, any of the following acts against the individual:

18 (i) rape or a sexual offense under § 3–303, § 3–304, § 3–307, or §
19 3–308 of the Criminal Law Article; or

20 (ii) attempted rape or sexual offense in any degree.

[(n)] (O)21 (1) “Pet” means a domesticated animal.

22 (2) “Pet” does not include livestock.

[(o)] (P)23 (1) “Petitioner” means an individual who files a petition.

24 (2) “Petitioner” includes:

25 (i) a person eligible for relief; or

26 (ii) the following persons who may seek relief from abuse on behalf
27 of a minor or vulnerable adult:

PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 533 7

1 1. the State’s Attorney for the county where the child or
2 vulnerable adult lives, or, if different, where the abuse is alleged to have taken place;

3 2. the department of social services that has jurisdiction in
4 the county where the child or vulnerable adult lives, or, if different, where the abuse is
5 alleged to have taken place;

6 3. a person related to the child or vulnerable adult by blood,
7 marriage, or adoption; and

8 4. an adult who resides in the home.

[(p)] (Q)9 “Residence” includes the yard, grounds, outbuildings, and common
10 areas surrounding the residence.

[(q)] (R)11 “Respondent” means the person alleged in the petition to have
12 committed the abuse.

[(r)] (S)13 “Temporary protective order” means a protective order issued under §
14 4–505 of this subtitle.

[(s)] (T)15 “Victim” includes a person eligible for relief.

[(t)] (U)16 “Vulnerable adult” has the meaning provided in § 14–101(q) of this
17 article.

18 4–505.

(I)19 (a) (1) If, after a hearing on a petition, whether ex parte or otherwise, a
20 judge finds that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person eligible for relief has
21 been abused, the judge may enter a temporary protective order to protect any person
22 eligible for relief from abuse.

(II) IN23 DETERMINING WHETHER THERE ARE REASONABLE
ABUSED,24 GROUNDS TO BELIEVE THAT A PERSON ELIGIBLE FOR RELIEF HAS BEEN
25 THE JUDGE MAY CONSIDER WHETHER A MILITARY PROTECTION ORDER HAS BEEN
26 ISSUED AGAINST THE RESPONDENT FOR THE SAME OR SIMILAR CONDUCT AGAINST
RELIEF.27 THE SAME PERSON ELIGIBLE FOR

28 4–509.

29 (a) A person may not fail to comply with the relief granted in an interim protective
30 order under § 4–504.1(c)(1), (2), (3), (4)(i), (7), or (8) of this subtitle, a temporary protective
31 order under § 4–505(a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), or (viii) of this subtitle, or a final protective
32 order under § 4–506(d)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (5), or (f) of this subtitle.

PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 533

1 (b) A person who violates subsection (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
2 and on conviction is subject, for each offense, to:

3 (1) for a first offense, a fine not exceeding $1,000 or imprisonment not
4 exceeding 90 days or both; and

5 (2) for a second or subsequent offense, a fine not exceeding $2,500 or
6 imprisonment not exceeding 1 year or both.

7 (c) Notwithstanding any other law, a conviction under this section may not merge
8 with a conviction for any other crime based on the act establishing the violation of this
9 section.

10 (d) A sentence imposed under this section may be imposed separate from and
11 consecutive to or concurrent with a sentence for any crime based on the act establishing
12 the violation of this section.

13 (e) For the purpose of second or subsequent offender penalties provided under
14 subsection (b)(2) of this section, a prior conviction under § 3–1508 of the Courts Article shall
15 be considered a conviction under this section.

(1)16 (f) An officer shall arrest with or without a warrant and take into custody
17 a person who the officer has probable cause to believe is in violation of an interim,
18 temporary, or final protective order in effect at the time of the violation.

(2) IF19 AN OFFICER HAS PROBABLE CAUSE TO BELIEVE THAT AN
(1)20 INDIVIDUAL DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION IS A SERVICE
21 MEMBER IN VIOLATION OF A MILITARY PROTECTION ORDER ENTERED INTO THE
FEDERAL BUREAU INVESTIGATION’S NATIONAL CRIME INFORMATION CENTER22 OF
DATABASE,23 THE OFFICER SHALL NOTIFY THE LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY THAT
24 ENTERED THE MILITARY PROTECTION ORDER INTO THE DATABASE THAT THE
ORDER.25 SERVICE MEMBER MAY HAVE VIOLATED THE MILITARY PROTECTION

26 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
27 October 1, 2025.