PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 21

Chapter 21

(House Bill 514)

AN ACT concerning

Health Occupations – State Board of Chiropractic Examiners – Revisions

FOR the purpose of altering certain provisions of law governing the State Board of
Chiropractic Examiners and the practice of chiropractic in the State related to Board
membership, licensure of chiropractors, the discipline of chiropractors, and the
denial of licenses to applicants; authorizing the Board to inspect chiropractor offices
under certain circumstances; requiring the Board to require a licensee or applicant
to submit to an examination by a health care provider under certain circumstances;
and generally relating to the Maryland Chiropractic Act.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health Occupations
Section 3–101, 3–202(a) and (b), 3–205, 3–301(d), 3–302(c) and (d), 3–303(a),
3–304(c), 3–305.1, 3–311, 3–313(29) and (30), and 3–314(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY repealing
Article – Health Occupations
Section 3–302(e), 3–304(d) and (e), and 3–402
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Health Occupations
Section 3–304(d) through (g), 3–313(31) through (33), and 3–318
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health Occupations

3–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Board” means the State Board of Chiropractic Examiners.

(c) “Chiropractor” means an individual who practices chiropractic.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 21 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(d) “Direct supervision” means supervision provided by a supervising
chiropractor who is personally present or immediately available where the procedures are
performed to give aid, direction, and instruction when certain procedures or activities are
performed.

[(e) “Extern license” means a license to practice chiropractic under the direct
chiropractor.]supervision of a Board–approved licensed

[(f)] (E) “License” means, unless the context requires otherwise, a license
granted by the Board:

(1) To practice chiropractic; or

(2) To practice chiropractic with the right to practice physical therapy.

[(g)] (F) “Licensed chiropractor” means, unless the context requires otherwise,
a chiropractor who is licensed by the Board to practice chiropractic or to practice
chiropractic with the right to practice physical therapy.

[(h)] (G) (1) “Practice chiropractic” means to use a drugless system of health
care based on the principle that interference with the transmission of nerve impulses may
cause disease.

(2) “Practice chiropractic” includes the diagnosing and locating of
misaligned or displaced vertebrae and, through the manual manipulation and adjustment
of the spine and other skeletal structures, treating disorders of the human body.

(3) Except as otherwise provided in this title, “practice chiropractic” does
not include the use of drugs or surgery, or the practice of osteopathy, obstetrics, or any
other branch of medicine.

(4) The definition of “practice chiropractic” does not prohibit a chiropractor
from selecting diet and hygiene measures for an individual.

[(i)] (H) “Practice physical therapy” has the meaning stated in § 13–101 of this
article.

(I) “PRECEPTORSHIP” MEANS AN ORGANIZED SYSTEM OF CLINICAL
EXPERIENCE THAT ALLOWS A STUDENT ENROLLED IN A CHIROPRACTIC PROGRAM
OF STUDY TO BE PAIRED WITH A CLINICAL PRECEPTOR FOR THE PURPOSE OF
OBJECTIVES.ATTAINING SPECIFIC LEARNING

3–202.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 21

(a) (1) The Board consists of 7 members.

(2) Of the 7 members:

(i) 5 shall be licensed chiropractors; and

(ii) 2 shall be consumer members.

(3) (i) The Governor shall appoint the chiropractor members, with the
[a]:advice of the Secretary, and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from

1. A list of qualified individuals submitted to the Governor
Association;by the Maryland Chiropractic OR

2. THE INDIVIDUALS WHO PROVIDE A STATEMENT OF
~~15~~ 20 STATE.NOMINATION SIGNED BY AT LEAST CHIROPRACTORS LICENSED IN THE

(ii) The number of names on the list SUBMITTED UNDER
(I)1 [five]shall be times the number ofSUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH THREE
vacancies.

(I)1(iii) The list SUBMITTED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
shall include the name of the incumbent member unless the incumbentPARAGRAPH
declines renomination.

(4) The Governor shall appoint the consumer members with the advice of
the Secretary, and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

(b) Each chiropractor member of the Board shall be:

(1) A resident of this State;

(2) A licensed chiropractor of integrity and ability who is in active practice;
AND

[A(3) graduate of a resident course in chiropractic; and

(4)] An individual who has practiced chiropractic in this State for at least 5
consecutive years.

3–205.

(a) In addition to the powers set forth elsewhere in this title, the Board may:

(1) Adopt rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this title;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 21 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) Summon witnesses, administer oaths, take affidavits, and take
[and]testimony about matters that relate to the duties of the Board;

(3) In accordance with the State budget, authorize payment of fees and
Board;travel expenses of witnesses who testify in any proceeding before the AND

(4) EXCEPT HOSPITAL,FOR AN OFFICE OF A CHIROPRACTOR IN A
INSTITUTION, FACILITY,RELATED FREESTANDING MEDICAL OR FREESTANDING
CENTER,BIRTHING CONDUCT AN UNANNOUNCED INSPECTION OF THE OFFICE OF A
BOARDCHIROPRACTOR AGAINST WHOM A COMPLAINT HAS BEEN FILED WITH THE
CENTERS DISEASE CONTROLREGARDING A VIOLATION OF THE FOR AND
PREVENTION’S GUIDELINES ON STANDARD PRECAUTIONS AND RELATED
BOARDGUIDELINES IN REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE TO DETERMINE
OFFICE.COMPLIANCE WITH THE GUIDELINES AT THAT

(b) In addition to the duties set forth elsewhere in this title, the Board shall:

(1) Adopt an official seal;

(2) File reports of its activities as required by the Secretary;

[and](3) Assist in prosecutions under this title;

title;(4) Investigate an alleged violation of this AND

(5) ADOPT PRECEPTORSHIPS.REGULATIONS GOVERNING

3–301.

(d) This section does not apply to:

(1) A student of chiropractic whileENGAGED IN A PRECEPTORSHIP
BOARD–APPROVEDunder the direct supervision of a licensed chiropractor engaged in an
program[:educational

Sponsored] [college](i) by a accredited bySPONSORED PROGRAM
Education,the Council on Chiropractic AN EQUIVALENT ENTITY RECOGNIZED BY THE
U.S. DEPARTMENT EDUCATIONOF OR ANOTHER ENTITY THAT ACCREDITS
CHIROPRACTIC,PROGRAMS OFFERING INSTRUCTION IN OR AN EQUIVALENT
FOREIGN AGENCY THAT ACCREDITS PROGRAMS OFFERING INSTRUCTION IN
[andCHIROPRACTIC;

Board;](ii) Approved by the or

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 21

(2) An individual licensed to practice chiropractic in any other state or a
foreign country while that individual makes a clinical demonstration before:

(i) A chiropractic association;

(ii) A chiropractic convention; or

[college](iii) A chiropractic PROGRAM.

3–302.

[shall](c) Except as otherwise provided in this title, the applicant MUST:

[(i)(1) Hold a bachelor’s degree from a college or university approved by
an accrediting agency of the United States Department of Education; and

(ii) Have completed satisfactorily college courses required by the
Board; and

(i)] [school of](2) Be a graduate of a chiropractic PROGRAM OF STUDY
[has title] WAS,that been approved by the Board under § 3–402 of this AT THE TIME OF
APPLICANT’S GRADUATION, COUNCIL CHIROPRACTICTHE ACCREDITED BY THE ON
EDUCATION, U.S. DEPARTMENTAN EQUIVALENT ENTITY RECOGNIZED BY THE OF
EDUCATION OR ANOTHER ENTITY THAT ACCREDITS PROGRAMS OFFERING
CHIROPRACTIC,INSTRUCTION IN OR AN EQUIVALENT FOREIGN AGENCY THAT
CHIROPRACTIC; orACCREDITS PROGRAMS OFFERING INSTRUCTION IN

[(ii) 1.] (2) (I) Be licensed in another state for at least 2
years; and

[2.] (II) [school of]Be a graduate of a chiropractic
STUDY:PROGRAM OF

[A.] 1. [approved]That has been by theACCREDITED
Education, U.S.Council on Chiropractic AN EQUIVALENT ENTITY RECOGNIZED BY THE
DEPARTMENT EDUCATIONOF OR ANOTHER ENTITY THAT ACCREDITS PROGRAMS
CHIROPRACTIC,OFFERING INSTRUCTION IN OR AN EQUIVALENT FOREIGN AGENCY
within 4THAT ACCREDITS PROGRAMS OFFERING INSTRUCTION IN CHIROPRACTIC
[school]years after the applicant graduated from that CHIROPRACTIC PROGRAM OF
STUDY; and

[B.] 2. That the Board determines had standards
[approved school]comparable to an ACCREDITED CHIROPRACTIC PROGRAM OF STUDY
at the time the applicant graduated.
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 21 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(d) An applicant shall be entitled to a license to practice chiropractic with the
applicant[:right to practice physical therapy if the

Satisfies] [of(1) the requirements this section and §§ 3–303SATISFIES
and 3–304(e)(2) of this subtitle;

(2) Was licensed as a chiropractor on or before June 1, 1949; or

(3) Was enrolled at an approved college of chiropractic on June 1, 1949, and
licensed]later was graduated by that college and TO PRACTICE CHIROPRACTIC AND ANY
BOARD REGULATIONS.ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED BY THE IN

[(e) An applicant may not be required under subsection (c)(1)(i) of this section to
hold a bachelor’s degree if the applicant:

(1) Graduated from a school of chiropractic before July 1, 1999; and

(2) Meets the educational requirements in place at the time of the
chiropractic.]applicant’s graduation from a school of

3–303.

(a) To apply for a license, an applicant shall submit to the Board at least 45 days
before an examination:

(1) An application on the form the Board requires that includes
information of the applicant’s:

(i) Educational history;

(ii) Experience in health care;

[Hours courses] COURSES(iii) and taken during chiropractic
studies;

(iv) Training or studies in related fields; and

[Clinical] PRECEPTORSHIP(v) experience;

[college(2) Certified transcripts that demonstrate compliance with the
credit] requirements of § 3–302 of this subtitle;

(3) Proof of any degrees or certification alleged;

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 21

(4) Satisfactory evidence of good moral character;

(5) An application fee set by the Board; and

(6) Satisfactory evidence of having completed a State and national criminal
history records check in accordance with § 3–302.1 of this subtitle.

3–304.

shall[:(c) The Board

Notify](1) each qualified applicant of the time and place ofNOTIFY
examination[; and

(2) Publish in a newspaper of general circulation the time and place of each
examination].examination, at least 30 days before the

[(d) (1) The Board shall develop written evaluation criteria to be used to
identify minimum competency on the oral or clinical portions of the examination.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Board shall determine
the subjects, scope, method, and form for examinations given under this title.

(3) Until the grading of all examinations is completed:

(i) The examination papers of each applicant shall be identified only
by a number; and

(ii) The name of the applicant to whom an examination paper
belongs may not be disclosed to any member of the Board.

(4) The examination shall include a written practical or oral section on
clinical subjects, including:

(i) Chiropractic principles;

(ii) Chiropractic technique and practice;

(iii) Hygiene;

(iv) Neurology;

(v) Orthopedics;

(vi) Physical diagnosis;

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 21 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(vii) Roentgenology;

(viii) Symptomatology; and

(ix) Physical therapy, as defined in § 13–101 of this article.

(e) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this title, an applicant qualifies for a
license to practice chiropractic only if the applicant answers correctly at least:

(i) 60 percent of the questions in each subsection of the examination
other than the subsection on physical therapy; and

(ii) 75 percent of all of the questions on the examination other than
those on physical therapy.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this title, an applicant qualifies for a
license to practice chiropractic with the right to practice physical therapy only if the
applicant answers correctly at least:

(i) 60 percent of the questions in each subsection of the examination;
and

examination.](ii) 75 percent of all of the questions on the

(D) (1) THE BOARD–ADMINISTERED INCLUDE:EXAMINATION SHALL

(I) THE STATEGENERAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS OF THE ON
CHIROPRACTIC;THE PRACTICE OF AND

(II) THE CONTROL.LAWS AND REGULATIONS ON INFECTION

(2) AN APPLICANT QUALIFIES FOR A LICENSE TO PRACTICE
75%CHIROPRACTIC ONLY IF THE APPLICANT ANSWERS CORRECTLY AT LEAST OF
BOARD–ADMINISTERED EXAMINATION.ALL THE QUESTIONS ON THE

(E) (1) AN BOARDAPPLICANT SHALL PAY TO THE AN EXAMINATION FEE
BOARD.SET BY THE

(2) THE PAYMENT OF ONE EXAMINATION FEE ENTITLES AN
BOARD–ADMINISTERED TWICE.APPLICANT TO TAKE THE EXAMINATION

(F) IF BOARD–ADMINISTEREDAN APPLICANT FAILS THE EXAMINATION
TWICE, THE APPLICANT MAY RETAKE THE EXAMINATION IF THE APPLICANT PAYS
FEE.THE APPROPRIATE

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 21

(G) IN ADDITION TO THE WRITTEN EXAMINATION ADMINISTERED BY THE
BOARD, AN APPLICANT SHALL TAKE AND PASS ALL APPLICABLE SECTIONS OF THE
BY:NATIONAL EXAMINATION ADMINISTERED

(1) THE NATIONAL BOARD CHIROPRACTIC EXAMINERSOF OR ITS
ENTITY;SUCCESSOR

(2) AN EQUIVALENT NATIONAL CHIROPRACTIC TESTING ENTITY
BOARD;APPROVED BY THE OR

~~(2)~~ (3) AN EQUIVALENT FOREIGN CHIROPRACTIC TESTING ENTITY
BOARD.APPROVED BY THE

3–305.1.

grant[, extern](a) The Board may as appropriate, an license toA TEMPORARY
an individual who meets the requirements of this section.

[an extern] [shall(b) To qualify for license, an applicant be anA TEMPORARY
who]individual seeking to participate in a chiropractic externship SHALL:

[Submits] SUBMIT(1) an application provided by the Board;

[Has] HAVE [college](2) graduated from an accredited chiropractic
STUDY;PROGRAM OF

[Has] HAVE(3) begun the process of applying to the Board for a license to
[who has] [certain] requirements[,practice chiropractic, but not met specified in
regulation,] to qualify for a license;

(I) [Has(4) taken and passed the examination of the National Board of
Examiners;] HAVE 2Chiropractic BEEN LICENSED IN ANOTHER STATE FOR AT LEAST
STATE;YEARS PRECEDING THE APPLICATION IN THE OR

(II) HAVE GRADUATED FROM AN ACCREDITED CHIROPRACTIC
6PROGRAM OF STUDY WITHIN MONTHS PRECEDING THE APPLICATION IN THE
STATE;

HAVE WRITTEN,(5) SUBMITTED VERIFIED EVIDENCE THAT THE
APPLICANT HAS SUBMITTED A CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS CHECK IN
§ 3–302.1 SUBTITLE;ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 21 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(6) [Agrees] AGREE to practice under the direct supervision of a
[extern]Board–approved supervisor who is a licensed chiropractor while the TEMPORARY
license is in effect; and

[(6)] (7) [Pays] PAY the license fee set by the Board.TEMPORARY

(c) The applicant shall be of good moral character.

[(d) (1) The term of an extern license is the lesser of:

(i) The duration of the individual’s participation in the chiropractic
externship; or

(ii) 6 months from the date of the Board’s approval of the externship
application.

(2) The term of an extern license shall terminate on the earlier of:

(i) The date the individual’s chiropractic externship terminates; or

(ii) The date the individual is licensed by the Board to practice
chiropractor.]chiropractic without the direct supervision of a Board–approved licensed

(D) (1) UNLESS BOARDTHE SUSPENDS OR REVOKES A TEMPORARY
LICENSE, 6EACH TEMPORARY LICENSE EXPIRES MONTHS AFTER THE DATE OF
ISSUE.

(2) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS A
90 DAYS.TEMPORARY LICENSE MAY BE EXTENDED EVERY

(II) THE 12TOTAL LENGTH OF RENEWAL MAY NOT EXCEED
ISSUED.MONTHS FROM THE DATE THE ORIGINAL TEMPORARY LICENSE WAS

3–311.

(a) The Board shall place a licensee on inactive status, if the licensee submits to
the Board:

(1) An application for inactive status on the form required by the Board;
and

(2) The inactive status fee set by the Board.

[at time](b) A licensee on inactive status may reactivate the license any if the
licensee:

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 21

(1) Complies with the continuing education AND CARDIOPULMONARY
(CPR) requirements in effect for the renewal period in which theRESUSCITATION
licensee seeks to reactivate the license; and

[reinstatement](2) Pays the fee set by the Board.REACTIVATION

3–313.

Subject to the hearing provisions of § 3–315 of this subtitle, the Board may deny a
license to any applicant, reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, with or
without conditions, or suspend or revoke a license, or any combination thereof, if the
applicant or licensee:

(29) Fails to submit to a criminal history records check in accordance with §
[or]3–302.1 of this subtitle;

order;(30) Fails to comply with any Board

(31) DOES AN ACT THAT IS INCONSISTENT WITH GENERALLY
CHIROPRACTIC;ACCEPTED PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS IN THE PRACTICE OF

(32) FAILS TO COOPERATE WITH A LAWFUL INVESTIGATION
BOARD;CONDUCTED BY THE OR

(33) EXCEPT LIFE–THREATENINGIN AN EMERGENCY SITUATION
PRACTICABLE, CENTERSWHERE IT IS NOT FEASIBLE OR FAILS TO COMPLY WITH THE
DISEASE CONTROL PREVENTION’SFOR AND GUIDELINES ON STANDARD
PRECAUTIONS.

3–314.

(a) If after a hearing under § 3–315 of this subtitle the Board finds that there are
LICENSEE,grounds under § 3–313 of this subtitle to REPRIMAND ANY PLACE ANY
PROBATION, suspend or revoke a license, the Board may impose aLICENSEE ON OR
penalty not exceeding $5,000 for each violation:

LICENSEE,(1) Instead of REPRIMANDING THE PLACING THE LICENSEE
PROBATION, suspending the license; orON OR OR REVOKING

LICENSEE,(2) In addition to REPRIMANDING THE PLACING THE
PROBATION, suspending or revoking the license.LICENSEE ON OR

3–318.

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 21 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) IF BOARD,THE WHILE REVIEWING AN APPLICATION FOR LICENSURE OR
TITLE,INVESTIGATING AN ALLEGATION BROUGHT AGAINST A LICENSEE UNDER THIS
HAS REASON TO BELIEVE AND OBJECTIVE EVIDENCE THAT THE APPLICANT OR
APPLICANT’SLICENSEE MAY CAUSE HARM TO INDIVIDUALS AFFECTED BY THE OR
LICENSEE’S CHIROPRACTIC, BOARDPRACTICE OF THE SHALL REQUIRE THE
APPLICANT OR LICENSEE TO SUBMIT TO AN APPROPRIATE EXAMINATION BY A
BOARD.HEALTH CARE PROVIDER DESIGNATED BY THE

(B) IN RETURN FOR THE PRIVILEGE TO PRACTICE CHIROPRACTIC IN THE
STATE, HAVE:THE APPLICANT OR LICENSEE IS DEEMED TO

(1) CONSENTED TO SUBMIT TO AN EXAMINATION UNDER THIS
SECTION, BOARD WRITING;IF REQUESTED BY THE IN AND

(2) WAIVED ANY CLAIM OF PRIVILEGE AS TO THE TESTIMONY OR
PROFESSIONAL.EXAMINATION REPORTS OF THE EXAMINING HEALTH CARE

(C) THE FAILURE OR REFUSAL OF THE APPLICANT OR LICENSEE TO SUBMIT
(B)TO AN EXAMINATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION IS PRIMA
APPLICANT’S LICENSEE’SFACIE EVIDENCE OF THE OR INABILITY TO PRACTICE
BOARDCHIROPRACTIC COMPETENTLY UNLESS THE FINDS THAT THE FAILURE OR
LICENSEE.REFUSAL WAS BEYOND THE CONTROL OF THE

(D) THE BOARD SHALL PAY THE COST OF ANY EXAMINATION MADE UNDER
SECTION.THIS

[3–402.

(a) The Board shall approve those schools of chiropractic that provide a
curriculum, teaching standards, and facilities that the Board determines are adequate to
prepare a license applicant to practice chiropractic under this title.

(b) To be approved under this section, a school shall offer a program that:

(1) Is 4 academic years that total at least 4,000 60–minute hours of
resident study; and

(2) Leads to a degree of Doctor of Chiropractic.

(c) The Board may inspect any school of chiropractic to determine whether it
meets the standards required by this section.

(d) The Board may approve a school in another state on the recommendation of:

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 21

(1) The chiropractic licensing authority of that state; or

Education.](2) The Council on Chiropractic

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 13 –