START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 584

P6 5lr2234
CF SB 457

By: Delegate Forbes (Chair, Joint Committee on Pensions)
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Appropriations

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 4, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 State Retirement and Pension System – Transfers Between Systems –
3 Workgroup

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the State Retirement Agency to convene a workgroup to study
5 transfers of member service between State and local retirement and pension
6 systems; and generally relating to transfers of member service between State and
7 local retirement and pension systems.

8 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
9 That:

10 (a) (1) The State Retirement Agency shall convene a workgroup of interested
11 stakeholders to study the requirements and processes for transfers of member service
12 between State and local retirement and pension systems and make recommendations to
13 improve the process of transfers between systems.

14 (2) The workgroup convened under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall
15 include:

16 (i) one or more representatives of the State Retirement Agency,
17 designated by the Executive Director of the State Retirement Agency;

18 (ii) 1. one representative of the Baltimore City Employees’
19 Retirement System or the Baltimore City Fire and Police Employees’ Retirement System;

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0584*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 584

1 2. one representative of the Baltimore County Employees
2 Retirement System; ~~and~~

3 3. one representative of the Howard County Retirement Plan
4 or the Howard County Police and Fire Employees’ Retirement Plan;

5 4. one representative of the Anne Arundel County
6 Government Employees’ Retirement Plan, the Anne Arundel County Fire Service
7 Retirement Plan, the Anne Arundel County Detention Officers’ and Deputy Sheriffs’
8 Retirement Plan, or the Anne Arundel County Police Service Retirement Plan; and

9 5. one representative of the Frederick County Employees
10 Retirement Plan;

11 (iii) one representative from the American Federation of State,
12 County, and Municipal Employees; and

13 (iv) one or more representatives of the Department of Legislative
14 Services, designated by the Executive Director of the Department of Legislative Services.

15 (3) The representatives serving under paragraph (2)(ii) of this subsection
16 shall be appointed by the Maryland Association of Counties.

17 (b) The workgroup shall:

18 (1) review federal and State requirements pertaining to transfers of service
19 credit between systems;

20 (2) review Title 37 of the State Personnel and Pensions Article for statutory
21 inconsistencies and duplicative or ambiguous provisions;

22 (3) examine any other issues related to transfers of member service
23 between State and local retirement and pension systems; and

24 (4) recommend legislative changes required to address statutory
25 inconsistencies and duplicative or ambiguous provisions within Title 37 of the State
26 Personnel and Pensions Article, and any other issues identified by the workgroup.

27 (c) The State Retirement Agency shall provide staff for the workgroup.

28 (d) On or before December 1, 2025, the State Retirement Agency shall submit a
29 report of the findings and recommendations of the workgroup, including the need for any
30 legislative initiatives, to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
31 Government Article, the General Assembly.

32 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
33 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 1 year and 1 month and, at the end of June
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 584 3

1 30, 2026, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be
2 abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 3