PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1

Chapter 1

(House Bill 502)

AN ACT concerning

Office of Disability Employment Advancement and Policy and Maryland as a
Model Employer Initiative – Established

FOR the purpose of establishing the Office of Disability Employment Advancement and
Policy within the Department of Disabilities; establishing the Maryland as a Model
Employer Initiative within the Office of Disability Employment Advancement and
Policy to facilitate efforts that improve outcomes in the hiring, recruitment,
retention, and advancement of people with disabilities in the State government
workforce; and generally relating to the establishment of the Office of Disability
Employment Advancement and Policy and the Maryland as a Model Employer
Initiative.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Human Services
Section 7–114(b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Human Services
Section 7–1201 through 7–1205 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 12. Office of
Disability Employment Advancement and Policy”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Human Services

7–114.

(b) The Department shall oversee and administer the following programs and
units:

(1) constituent services and ombudsmen programs;

(2) the Assistive Technology Guaranteed Loan Program under Subtitle 6
of this title;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) the Office of Personal Assistance Services, including the Attendant
Care Program under Subtitle 4 of this title;

(4) Telecommunications Access of Maryland under Subtitle 8 of this title;
[and]

(5) Telecommunications Devices and Distribution of Accessible
title;Information for Disabled Individuals under Subtitle 9 of this AND

(6) OFFICE DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT ADVANCEMENTTHE OF AND
POLICY.

SUBTITLE 12. OFFICE DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT ADVANCEMENT POLICY.OF AND

7–1201.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “DEPARTMENT” DEPARTMENT DISABILITIES.MEANS THE OF

(C) “INITIATIVE” MARYLAND MODEL EMPLOYERMEANS THE AS A
INITIATIVE.

(D) “OFFICE” OFFICE DISABILITY EMPLOYMENTMEANS THE OF
ADVANCEMENT POLICY.AND

(E) “SECRETARY” SECRETARY DISABILITIES.MEANS THE OF

7–1202.

(A) THERE OFFICE DISABILITY EMPLOYMENT ADVANCEMENTIS AN OF
POLICY DEPARTMENT.AND WITHIN THE

(B) THE OFFICE INCLUDES:PURPOSE OF THE

(1) THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGIES IN
STATE DISABILITIES PLAN, § 7–132 TITLE,THE ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS
EMPLOYMENT, TRAINING, CAREER–READINESSRELATING TO THE AND OF
DISABILITIES;INDIVIDUALS WITH

(2) § 7–114PERFORMING DUTIES UNDER OF THIS TITLE NECESSARY
TO SUPPORT STATEWIDE POLICIES AND STANDARDS RELATING TO THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1

EMPLOYMENT, TRAINING, CAREER–READINESSAND OF INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES;

(3) STATECOLLECTING INFORMATION AND DATA FROM UNITS OF
EMPLOYMENT, TRAINING,GOVERNMENT RELATING TO THE AND
CAREER–READINESS DISABILITIES, §OF INDIVIDUALS WITH IN ACCORDANCE WITH
7–115 TITLE;OF THIS AND

(4) MARYLAND MODEL EMPLOYERIMPLEMENTING THE AS A
INITIATIVE, § 7–1205 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(C) BEGINNING 2027, GOVERNORIN FISCAL YEAR THE MAY INCLUDE IN THE
$250,000 OFFICE.ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF FOR THE

7–1203.

THE SECRETARY MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS AS NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT
SUBTITLE.THE PROVISIONS OF THIS

7–1204.

THIS SUBTITLE MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO ESTABLISH AN ENTITLEMENT
PROGRAM.

7–1205.

(A) BEGINNING JULY 1, 2026, OFFICETHE SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
MARYLAND MODEL EMPLOYERIMPLEMENTATION AND OVERSIGHT OF THE AS A
INITIATIVE.

(B) THE INITIATIVE INCLUDE:PURPOSE OF THE SHALL

(1) RECRUITMENT, HIRING, RETENTION,PROMOTING THE AND
STATECAREER ADVANCEMENT OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES ACROSS
GOVERNMENT;

(2) CONDUCTING AND COORDINATING OUTREACH TO JOB SEEKERS
STATEWITH DISABILITIES AND GOVERNMENT TO ENCOURAGE PARTICIPATION IN
INITIATIVE;THE

(3) STATEDEVELOPING AND DELIVERING TRAININGS TO AGENCIES
PRACTICES, RESOURCES,AND UNITS ADDRESSING BEST AND RELEVANT FEDERAL
STATEAND LAWS PERTAINING TO THE EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 1 2025 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) STATEASSISTING GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND UNITS TO
POSITIONS;ATTRACT QUALIFIED JOB SEEKERS WITH DISABILITIES TO AVAILABLE

(5) PROMOTING ACCESS TO AND ACQUISITION OF ASSISTIVE
STATE DISABILITIES;TECHNOLOGY FOR NEW EMPLOYEES WITH

(6) STATEEVALUATING EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES AND POLICIES AND
MAKING RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING WAYS TO REDUCE BARRIERS FOR JOB
DISABILITIES;SEEKERS AND EMPLOYEES WITH

(7) STATE GOVERNMENT,COLLECTING FROM EACH UNIT OF AS PART
§ 7–116 TITLE,OF THE PLANS REQUIRED UNDER OF THIS PERFORMANCE GOALS
RELATED TO HIRING AND RETENTION EFFORTS FOR EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES
SECRETARYAND ANY DATA DEEMED NECESSARY BY THE TO DEMONSTRATE
OUTCOMES;PERFORMANCE AND

(8) INITIATIVE’SREPORTING ON THE OUTCOMES IN COMPLIANCE
(C) SECTION.WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS

(C) ON DECEMBER 1, 2026, DECEMBER 1OR BEFORE AND EACH
THEREAFTER, OFFICE GOVERNOR GENERALTHE SHALL REPORT TO THE AND THE
ASSEMBLY, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ON:

(1) INITIATIVE;PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES OF THE AND

(2) INITIATIVERECOMMENDATIONS DEVELOPED BY THE FOR
STATECONTINUED IMPROVEMENT OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES FOR
DISABILITIES.PEOPLE WITH

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, April 8, 2025.

– 4 –