PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 500

P2 (5lr0451)
ENROLLED BILL
— Health and Government Operations/Budget and Taxation —
Introduced by The Speaker (By Request – Administration) and Delegates Allen,
Amprey, Bhandari, Boafo, Cardin, Edelson, Fennell, Foley, Hornberger,
Jackson, D. Jones, Kerr, J. Long, Phillips, Ruff, Simpson, Stein, Taveras,
Taylor, Toles, Turner, White Holland, Wilkins, Williams, Wims, Woods,
Woorman, ~~and~~ ~~Wu~~ Wu, Alston, Bagnall, Cullison, Guzzone, Hill, S. Johnson,
Kaiser, Lopez, Martinez, Pena–Melnyk, Rosenberg, and Ross

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Procurement Reform Act of 2025

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing the Secretary of General Services to delegate certain
4 powers and duties to the Chief Procurement Officer; altering the authority of the
5 Department of General Services to engage in or control procurement of certain
6 equipment and services; requiring the Department of Information Technology to
7 establish a technical procurement team; altering the authority of the Department of
8 Transportation and the Maryland Transportation Authority to engage in
9 procurement for certain supplies and services for transportation–related activities;
10 authorizing the head of a unit or a designee of the head of the unit to designate small

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0500*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 500

1 business preferences under certain circumstances; altering certain dollar values at
2 which a unit must publish notice of certain procurements, submit certain reports,
3 and designate a procurement for the small business reserve, at which a procurement
4 officer may require bid security or other security on certain procurements, and at
5 which certain apprenticeship requirements apply; requiring oral presentations for
6 certain procurements under certain circumstances; authorizing the Chief
7 Procurement Officer or the Chief Procurement Officer’s designee to approve the use
8 of noncompetitive negotiation for certain classes of procurements; ~~altering~~ ~~certain~~
9 ~~authority~~ ~~to~~ ~~authorize~~ ~~a~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~officer~~ ~~to~~ ~~make~~ ~~a~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~on~~ ~~an~~ ~~expedited~~
10 ~~basis~~ ~~and~~ ~~to~~ ~~approve~~ ~~the~~ ~~cancellation~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~solicitation~~ ~~or~~ ~~rejection~~ ~~of~~ ~~bids~~ ~~or~~ ~~proposals;~~
11 ~~requiring~~ ~~a~~ ~~unit~~ ~~to~~ ~~report~~ ~~certain~~ ~~information~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Board~~ ~~of~~ ~~Public~~ ~~Works~~ ~~after~~
12 ~~awarding~~ ~~an~~ ~~expedited~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~contract;~~ altering the membership of the Pricing
13 and Selection Committee for Preferred Providers; transferring the Employment
14 Works Program from the Department of General Services to the Office of Small,
15 Minority, and Women Business Affairs; altering certain authority of the Special
16 Secretary for Small, Minority, and Women Business Affairs and of units with regard
17 to the Minority Business Enterprise Program, Small Business Preference Program,
18 Veteran–Owned Small Business Enterprise Program, and Veteran–Owned Small
19 Business Reserve and associated goals; authorizing a primary procurement unit to
20 limit or revoke a unit’s ability to conduct small procurements under certain
21 circumstances; requiring the Board of Public Works to propose updated regulations
22 related to expedited change orders under certain circumstances; authorizing
23 modifications to State contracts under certain circumstances; clarifying that bids
24 and proposals can be considered for procurement contracts designated for a small
25 business reserve; clarifying pay–for–success contracting as a contract type and not a
26 source selection method; ~~authorizing~~ ~~the~~ ~~Chief~~ ~~Procurement~~ ~~Officer,~~ ~~subject~~ ~~to~~
27 ~~certain~~ ~~approval,~~ ~~to~~ ~~establish~~ ~~additional~~ ~~methods~~ ~~of~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~source~~ ~~selection;~~
28 requiring an intergovernmental cooperative purchasing agreement to be approved
29 by the primary procurement unit head or designee, or the Chief Procurement Officer
30 or designee; altering certain thresholds for master contracting; requiring a unit to
31 issue a solicitation for a task order to a certain number of contractors under certain
32 circumstances; requiring a contractor to submit a workforce diversity plan or
33 supplier diversity plan with procurements of a certain value; altering a State policy
34 regarding the payment of certain procurement contracts; requiring contractors
35 awarded certain procurements to use a certain internship program or a certain
36 apprenticeship program; establishing a procurement ~~preference~~ evaluation factor for
37 good labor practices ~~certified~~ ~~businesses;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~certain~~ ~~State~~ ~~departments~~ ~~to~~
38 ~~establish~~ ~~a~~ ~~working~~ ~~group;~~ requiring the Procurement Advisor to the Board to
39 conduct a certain study relating to instituting an in–State preference; and generally
40 relating to State procurement.

41 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
42 Article – Correctional Services
43 Section 10–101(a)
44 Annotated Code of Maryland
45 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 500 3

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Correctional Services
3 Section 10–101(c)
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
7 Article – Election Law
8 Section 2–109(a)(1)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
12 Article – Election Law
13 Section 2–109(a)(3)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
17 Article – Natural Resources
18 Section 3–103(g)(3)(ii)7.
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

21 BY adding to
22 Article – State Finance and Procurement
23 Section 3.5–205, 11–101(k) and (y), 12–107(b)(2)(i)11. and 12., 13–102(a)(11) and (c),
24 13–104(d)(3), 13–109(f), 13–228, 13–229, 14–302(a)(8), and 14–602.1; 14–801
25 through 14–805 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 8. Internship and
26 Registered Apprenticeship Program”; and 14–901 through 14–906 to be under
27 the new subtitle “Subtitle 9. Good Labor Practices Evaluation Factor”
28 Annotated Code of Maryland
29 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

30 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
31 Article – State Finance and Procurement
32 Section 4–301(a), 4–316(a), 11–101(a), 12–111(a)(1), 13–101(a), 13–102(b), 14–106(a)
33 and (b), 14–303(b)(17) through (22), 14–401(a)(1), and 17–602(a)
34 Annotated Code of Maryland
35 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

36 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
37 Article – State Finance and Procurement
38 Section 4–301(c) and (d), 4–303, 4–314, 11–101(k) through (y), 12–107(b)(2)(i)2. and
39 11., (3), and (4)(v), 12–111(a)(3)(i), 13–101(h) and (i), 13–102(a)(9) and (10),
40 13–102.1(b), 13–103(a)(2)(v), (c)(3), and (f), 13–104(g), 13–106(a)(2),
41 13–108(b)(1) and (8)(i) and (d), 13–110(b)(7), 13–113(d), (e), and (f), ~~13–206(b),~~

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 500

1 13–207(a), (b), and (c)(1), 13–216, 14–106(c), 14–108(b) and (c), 14–203(a),
2 14–204, 14–205, 14–302(a)(1)(ii)1., (iii)1., (iv)1., (2), and (8) through (15),
3 14–303(a)(1)(ii) and (b)(12), ~~(13),~~ ~~and~~ ~~(18)~~ ~~through~~ ~~(22)~~ and (13), 14–401(a)(5),
4 14–502.1(a) and (b),14–504(c), 14–601, 14–602, 15–103, 15–111(a), 15–112(e),
5 17–103, 17–602(b) and (e), 17–604(a), 19–114, and 19–116
6 Annotated Code of Maryland
7 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

8 ~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
9 ~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Finance~~ ~~and~~ ~~Procurement~~
10 ~~Section~~ ~~11–101(k)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(y),~~ ~~12–107(b)(2)(i)11.~~ ~~and~~ ~~12.,~~ ~~13–102(a)(11)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(c),~~
11 ~~13–104(d)(3),~~ ~~13–109(f),~~ ~~13–228,~~ ~~13–229,~~ ~~14–302(a)(8),~~ ~~and~~ ~~14–602.1;~~ ~~14–801~~
12 ~~through~~ ~~14–805~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~new~~ ~~subtitle~~ ~~“Subtitle~~ ~~8.~~ ~~Internship~~ ~~and~~
13 ~~Registered~~ ~~Apprenticeship~~ ~~Program”;~~ ~~and~~ ~~14–901~~ ~~through~~ ~~14–906~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~under~~
14 ~~the~~ ~~new~~ ~~subtitle~~ ~~“Subtitle~~ ~~9.~~ ~~Good~~ ~~Labor~~ ~~Practices~~ ~~Preference~~ ~~Evaluation~~
15 ~~Factor”;~~ ~~and~~ ~~15–112.1~~ ~~Evaluation~~ ~~Factor”~~
16 ~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
17 ~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2024~~ ~~Supplement)~~

18 BY repealing
19 Article – State Finance and Procurement
20 Section 12–107(b)(2)(i)10. and (5), 13–101(g), 13–102(a)(11), and 13–112.1, ~~and~~
21 ~~14–303(b)(17)~~
22 Annotated Code of Maryland
23 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

24 ~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~without~~ ~~amendments,~~
25 ~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Government~~
26 ~~Section~~ ~~4–113(a)~~
27 ~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
28 ~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2024~~ ~~Supplement)~~

29 ~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
30 ~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Government~~
31 ~~Section~~ ~~4–113(b)(5)~~
32 ~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
33 ~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2024~~ ~~Supplement)~~

34 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
35 Article – State Personnel and Pensions
36 Section 13–401(a)
37 Annotated Code of Maryland
38 (2024 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

39 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
40 Article – State Personnel and Pensions
41 Section 13–401(c)

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 500 5

1 Annotated Code of Maryland
2 (2024 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

3 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
4 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

5 Article – Correctional Services

6 10–101.

7 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[§ 11–101(w)] § 11–1018 (c) “State correctional facility” has the meaning stated in
9 of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

10 Article – Election Law

11 2–109.

12 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

13 (3) “Contract” means an agreement in any form entered into by a
[§ 11–101(m)(1)] § 11–10114 governmental entity for a procurement as defined in of the State
15 Finance and Procurement Article.

16 Article – Natural Resources

17 3–103.

18 (g) (3) (ii) The Service may procure materials, equipment, services, or
19 supplies by utilizing:

[§ 13–112.1] § 13–22820 7. Pay–for–success contracting under
21 of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

22 Article – State Finance and Procurement

3.5–205.23

(A) THE DEPARTMENT24 SHALL ESTABLISH A TECHNICAL PROCUREMENT
25 TEAM THAT INCLUDES INDIVIDUALS WITH EXPERTISE IN TECHNOLOGY
PROCUREMENT.26 PROCUREMENT AND AGILE

(B) THE TEAM:27 TECHNICAL PROCUREMENT

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 500

(1) DEPARTMENT GENERAL1 IN COLLABORATION WITH THE OF
SERVICES, COST–EFFECTIVE2 SHALL DEVELOP MATERIALS THAT ENCOURAGE AND
COST–EFFICIENT SPENDING,3 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES INCLUDING
TEMPLATES, CONTRACTS,4 PROCUREMENT PROCUREMENT AND OTHER
MATERIALS;5 PROCUREMENT AND

(2) STATE GOVERNMENT,6 MAY ASSIST A UNIT OF INCLUDING THE
DEPARTMENT GENERAL SERVICES,7 OF TO PROCURE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
SERVICES, INCLUDING:8

(I) PROPOSALS;9 DRAFTING REQUESTS FOR

(II) VENDORS;10 REVIEWING BIDS AND SELECTING AND

(III)11 DEVELOPING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE
12 CONTRACTS IN A MANNER THAT ENCOURAGES COMPETITION AND FULL
VENDORS.13 PARTICIPATION BY

14 4–301.

15 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

16 (c) (1) “Services” means the rendering of time, effort, or work, rather than the
17 furnishing of a specific physical product other than reports incidental to the required
18 performance.

19 (2) “Services” includes maintenance, construction–related services,
SERVICES,20 architectural services, engineering services, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
CYBERSECURITY,21 and the professional, personal, or contractual services provided by
22 attorneys, accountants, physicians, consultants, and other professionals who are
23 independent contractors.

COMMODITIES,24 (d) “Supplies” means tangible property, including
~~SOFTWARE,~~ equipment, materials,25 ~~and~~INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY HARDWARE ~~AND~~
PROPERTY,26 SOFTWARE.AND INTANGIBLE INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

27 4–303.

28 The Secretary may delegate any power or duty set forth in Part I or Part II of this
DIVISION II29 subtitle to the Chief Procurement Officer of the OfficeOR OF THIS ARTICLE
30 of State Procurement.

31 4–314.

PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 500 7

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER,1 At time intervals set by the Secretary eachOR
2 unit that procures supplies under Division II of this article shall send to the Secretary OR
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER3 estimates of the amount and quality of any needed
4 supplies.

5 4–316.

6 (a) Subject to the initial approval of the Secretary or Chief Procurement Officer,
7 the appropriate purchasing unit for the following entities may use the services of the
8 Department to purchase services, materials, supplies, and equipment:

9 (1) a county;

10 (2) a municipality;

11 (3) a governmental unit in the State;

12 (4) a public or quasi–public agency that:

13 (i) receives State money; and

14 (ii) is exempt from taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
15 Code;

16 (5) a private elementary or secondary school that:

17 (i) either has been issued a certificate of approval from the State
18 Board of Education or is accredited by the Association of Independent Schools; and

19 (ii) is exempt from taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
20 Code; or

21 (6) a nonpublic institution of higher education as provided under § 17–106
22 of the Education Article.

23 11–101.

24 (a) In this Division II the following words have the meanings indicated unless:

25 (1) the context clearly requires a different meaning; or

26 (2) a different definition is provided for a particular title or provision.

(K) “INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY” § 3.5–30127 HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
ARTICLE.28 OF THIS

PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 500

[(k)] (L)1 “Invitation for bids” means any document used for soliciting bids under
2 § 13–103 of this article.

[(l)] (M)3 “Person” means an individual, receiver, trustee, guardian, personal
4 representative, fiduciary, or representative of any kind and any partnership, firm,
5 association, corporation, or other entity.

[(m)] (N)6 “Primary procurement units” means:

7 (1) the State Treasurer;

8 (2) the Department of General Services;

9 (3) the Department of Transportation;

10 (4) the University System of Maryland;

11 (5) the Maryland Port Commission;

12 (6) the Morgan State University; and

13 (7) the St. Mary’s College of Maryland.

[(n)] (O)14 (1) “Procurement” means the process of:

15 (i) leasing real or personal property as lessee; or

16 (ii) buying or otherwise obtaining supplies, services, construction,
17 construction related services, architectural services, engineering services, or services
18 provided under an energy performance contract.

19 (2) “Procurement” includes the solicitation and award of procurement
20 contracts and all phases of procurement contract administration.

[(o)] (P)21 (1) “Procurement contract” means an agreement in any form entered
22 into by a unit for procurement.

23 (2) “Procurement contract” does not include:

24 (i) a collective bargaining agreement with an employee
25 organization;

26 (ii) an agreement with a contractual employee, as defined in §
27 1–101(d) of the State Personnel and Pensions Article;

PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 500 9

1 (iii) a Medicaid, Judicare, or similar reimbursement contract for
2 which law sets:

3 1. user or recipient eligibility; and

4 2. price payable by the State; or

5 (iv) a Medicaid contract with a managed care organization, as
6 defined in § 15–101(e) of the Health – General Article as to which regulations adopted by
7 the Department establish:

8 1. recipient eligibility;

9 2. minimum qualifications for managed care organizations;
10 and

11 3. criteria for enrolling recipients in managed care
12 organizations.

[(p)] (Q)13 “Procurement officer” means an individual authorized by a unit to:

14 (1) enter into a procurement contract;

15 (2) administer a procurement contract; or

16 (3) make determinations and findings with respect to a procurement
17 contract.

[(q)] (R)18 “Proposal” means a response to any solicitation other than an invitation
19 for bids.

[(r)] (S)20 “Request for proposals” means any document used for soliciting
21 proposals.

[(s)] (T)22 “Responsible bidder or offeror” means a person who:

23 (1) has the capability in all respects to perform fully the requirements for
24 a procurement contract; and

25 (2) possesses the integrity and reliability that will ensure good faith
26 performance.

[(t)] (U)27 “Responsive bid” means a bid that:

28 (1) is submitted under § 13–103 of this article; and

PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 500

1 (2) conforms in all material respects to the invitation for bids.

[(u)] (V)2 (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, “services”
3 means:

4 (i) the labor, time, or effort of a contractor; and

5 (ii) any product or report necessarily associated with the rendering
6 of a service.

includes:7 (2) “Services”

(I)8 services provided by attorneys, accountants, physicians,
contractors;9 consultants, and other professionals who are independent AND

(II)10 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES AND
11 CYBERSECURITY.

12 (3) “Services” does not include:

13 (i) construction related services;

14 (ii) architectural services;

15 (iii) engineering services; or

16 (iv) energy performance contract services.

[(v)] (W)17 “State” means:

18 (1) a state, possession, territory, or commonwealth of the United States; or

19 (2) the District of Columbia.

[(w)] (X)20 (1) “State correctional facilities” means correctional institutions,
21 and all places of correctional confinement, that are located within the State of Maryland
22 and are primarily operated by the Maryland State government.

23 (2) “State correctional facilities” includes Patuxent Institution.

(Y) “STATEWIDE CONTRACT”24 MEANS A CONTRACT THAT HAS BEEN
25 PROCURED BY A PRIMARY PROCUREMENT UNIT TO BE USED BY ~~ANY~~ ~~UNIT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AN~~ ALL
§ 4–316 ARTICLE.26 UNITS OR ANY ENTITY LISTED IN OF THIS

[(x)] (Z)27 (1) “Supplies” means:

PAGE 11
HOUSE BILL 500 11

1 (i) insurance;

2 (ii) tangible personal property INCLUDING INFORMATION
3 SOFTWARE;TECHNOLOGY HARDWARE AND

4 (iii) printing; and

5 (iv) services necessarily associated with insurance or tangible
6 personal property.

7 (2) “Supplies” does not include:

8 (i) an interest in real property; or

9 (ii) tangible personal property acquired or used in connection with
10 an energy performance contract.

[(y)] (AA)11 (1) “Unit” means an officer or other entity that is in the Executive
12 Branch of the State government and is authorized by law to enter into a procurement
13 contract.

14 (2) “Unit” does not include:

15 (i) a bistate, multistate, bicounty, or multicounty governmental
16 agency; or

17 (ii) a special tax district, sanitary district, drainage district, soil
18 conservation district, water supply district, or other political subdivision of the State.

19 12–107.

20 (b) Subject to the authority of the Board, jurisdiction over procurement is as
21 follows:

22 (2) the Department of General Services may:

23 (i) engage in or control procurement of:

24 2. supplies, including supplies under Title 4, Subtitle 3 of
insurance[, equipment,]25 this article, but excluding information processing and motor
26 vehicle leases;

[10.27 information processing equipment and associated
and]28 services, as provided in Title 3.5, Subtitle 3 of this article;

PAGE 12
12 HOUSE BILL 500

[11.] 10.1 telecommunication equipment, systems, or
2 services, as provided in Title 3.5, Subtitle 4 of this article;

11.3 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM
MODERNIZATION, TITLE 3.5, SUBTITLE 3 ARTICLE;4 AS PROVIDED IN OF THIS AND

12. MODERNIZATION,5 CYBERSECURITY UPGRADES AND
TITLE 3.5, SUBTITLE 3 ARTICLE;6 AS PROVIDED IN OF THIS

7 (3) the Department of Transportation and the Maryland Transportation
8 Authority, without the approval of any of the other primary procurement units, may engage
9 in the procurement of:

10 (i) construction that is related to transportation, as provided in the
11 Transportation Article;

12 (ii) construction related services that are related to transportation,
13 as provided in the Transportation Article;

14 (iii) architectural or engineering services that are related to
15 transportation, under Title 13, Subtitle 3 of this article;

(IV) TRANSPORTATION–RELATED ACTIVITIES,16 SUPPLIES FOR
TITLE17 INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SUPPLIES THAT ARE SUBJECT TO
3.5 ARTICLE, EXCLUDING:18 OF THIS BUT

1. STATE19 SUPPLIES FUNDED BY THE PROCEEDS FROM
BONDS;20 GENERAL OBLIGATION AND

2. INSURANCE;21

(V) TRANSPORTATION–RELATED ACTIVITIES,22 SERVICES FOR
TITLE23 INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES THAT ARE SUBJECT TO
3.5 ARTICLE,24 OF THIS BUT EXCLUDING BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES UNDER
STATE TREASURER (1) SUBSECTION;25 THE AUTHORITY OF THE UNDER ITEM OF THIS

[(iv)] (VI)26 rolling stock and other property peculiar to the operation
27 of a transit system, as provided in § 7–403 of the Transportation Article;

[(v)] (VII)28 supplies for aeronautics related activities, including motor
29 vehicles and information processing supplies, but excluding:

30 1. supplies funded by the proceeds from State general
31 obligation bonds; and

PAGE 13
HOUSE BILL 500 13

1 2. insurance; and

[(vi)] (VIII)2 services for aeronautics related activities, including
3 information processing services, but excluding banking and financial services under the
4 authority of the State Treasurer under item (1) of this subsection; AND

5 (4) the Maryland Port Commission, without the approval of any of the
6 other primary procurement units, may engage in the procurement of:

7 (v) leases of real property for port related activities unless the lease
State[; and].8 payments are from the General Fund of the

[(5)9 the Department of General Services, without the approval of any other
10 primary procurement unit, may engage in or control procurement of:

11 (i) information processing equipment, cloud computing equipment,
12 and associated services, as provided in Title 3.5, Subtitle 3 of this article;

13 (ii) information technology system modernization, as provided in
14 Title 3.5, Subtitle 3 of this article;

15 (iii) telecommunication equipment, systems, or services, as provided
16 in Title 3.5, Subtitle 4 of this article; and

17 (iv) cybersecurity upgrades and modernization, as provided in Title
article.]18 3.5, Subtitle 3 of this

19 12–111.

20 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

21 (3) (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
[§ 11–101(u)] § 11–10122 “services” has the meaning stated in of this article.

23 13–101.

24 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[(g)25 “Pay–for–success contracting” means a performance–based procurement
26 method through which a unit contracts with an organization to deliver services or
outcomes.]27 commodities in exchange for payment based on the achievement of

[(h)] (G)28 “Person” includes, unless the context requires otherwise:

29 (1) the State;

PAGE 14
14 HOUSE BILL 500

1 (2) a county, a municipal corporation, or any other political subdivision;
2 and

3 (3) any unit of the State government or a political subdivision.

[(i)] (H)4 “Task order” means a procurement process in which only those vendors
5 with master contracts may compete to provide the services, supplies, or commodities under
6 the procurement.

7 13–102.

8 (a) The following procurement methods are authorized at the procurement
9 officer’s discretion, where applicable:

10 (9) architectural, engineering, and land surveying services qualification
11 based selection under § 13–112 of this subtitle; OR

subtitle[; or].12 (10) master contracting under § 13–113 of this

[(11) subtitle.]13 pay–for–success contracting under § 13–112.1 of this

~~(11)~~14 ~~A~~ ~~SOURCE~~ ~~SELECTION~~ ~~METHOD~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(C)~~ ~~SECTION.~~15 ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

16 (b) (1) In awarding a procurement contract for human, social, cultural, or
17 educational service, the preferred method is by competitive sealed proposals under §
18 13–104 of this subtitle.

19 (2) In awarding a procurement contract for a lease of real property, the
20 preferred method is by competitive sealed proposals under § 13–105 of this subtitle.

21 (3) Procurement under an intergovernmental cooperative purchasing
22 agreement is appropriate in situations where the State is expected to achieve a better price
23 as the result of economies of scale or to otherwise benefit by purchasing in cooperation with
24 another governmental entity.

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~BOARD,~~ ~~CHIEF~~25 ~~TO~~ ~~APPROVAL~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER~~26 ~~MAY~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~ ~~METHODS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~SOURCE~~ ~~SELECTION~~ ~~IN~~
~~(A)~~27 ~~ADDITION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THOSE~~ ~~LISTED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~AND~~ ~~PROVIDE~~
~~USAGE.~~28 ~~GUIDELINES~~ ~~FOR~~

29 13–102.1.

30 (b) (1) Subject to approval by the Board of Public Works, the Chief
31 Procurement Officer may establish fees for the use of eMaryland Marketplace by an entity

PAGE 15
HOUSE BILL 500 15

1 that publishes a notice of a procurement, conducts a procurement, or publishes a notice of
2 award.

[§3 (2) The Chief Procurement Officer may not charge a unit, as defined in
11–101(y)] § 11–1014 of this article, a fee under this subsection.

5 13–103.

6 (a) (2) Subject to subsection (b) of this section, an invitation for bids shall
7 include:

[Secretary8 (v) if the of General Services, the Secretary of
Maryland]9 Transportation, or the Chancellor of the University System of HEAD OF THE
UNIT’S10 has so designated, the small businessUNIT OR THE HEAD OF THE DESIGNEE
11 preference.

12 (c) (3) The unit shall publish notice in eMaryland Marketplace at least 20 days
13 before bid opening if:

14 (i) the procurement officer reasonably expects bid prices to exceed
[$50,000] § 13–10915 THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS
16 or a lower amount set by the Board by regulation in accordance with Title 10,SUBTITLE
17 Subtitle 1 of the State Government Article; and

18 (ii) at least part of the procurement contract is to be performed in
19 this State or the District of Columbia.

20 (f) Not more than 30 days after the execution and approval of a procurement
[$50,000] §21 contract in excess of THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN
13–10922 awarded under this section, or a lower amount set by the BoardOF THIS SUBTITLE
23 by regulation in accordance with Title 10, Subtitle 1 of the State Government Article, a unit
24 shall publish notice of the award in eMaryland Marketplace.

25 13–104.

(3) (I) EXCEPT (II)26 (d) AS PROVIDED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, WHEN:27 AN ORAL PRESENTATION IS REQUIRED

1.28 THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE CONTRACT IS EXPECTED
$2,000,000 SERVICES;29 TO EXCEED FOR ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING

2.30 THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE CONTRACT IS EXPECTED
$10,000,00031 TO EXCEED FOR CONSTRUCTION AND CONSTRUCTION RELATED
SERVICES;32 OR

PAGE 16
16 HOUSE BILL 500

3. PROCUREMENT,1 FOR ANY OTHER INCLUDING
SERVICES,2 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PROFESSIONAL THE TOTAL VALUE OF
$5,000,000.3 THE CONTRACT IS EXPECTED TO EXCEED

(II) IF4 THE PROCUREMENT OFFICER MAKES A WRITTEN
5 DETERMINATION THAT ORAL PRESENTATIONS ARE UNLIKELY TO AID IN THE
PROCESS, REQUIRED.6 EVALUATION ORAL PRESENTATIONS ARE NOT

[$50,000]7 (g) A unit shall publish notice of a contract in excess of THE SMALL
§ 13–1098 awarded underPROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS SUBTITLE
9 this section, or a lower amount set by the Board by regulation in accordance with Title 10,
10 Subtitle 1 of the State Government Article in eMaryland Marketplace.

11 13–106.

12 (a) A procurement officer may award a procurement contract on the basis of
13 noncompetitive negotiation if:

[Department14 (2) the procurement is one of a class for which the of Budget
Management] CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER CHIEF PROCUREMENT15 and OR THE
OFFICER’S16 has approved the use of noncompetitive negotiation; andDESIGNEE

17 13–108.

18 (b) (1) Except as provided in § 11–205 (“Collusion”), § 10–204 (“Approval for
[§19 designated contracts”), § 13–219 (“Required clauses – Nondiscrimination clause”),
State”),]20 13–221 (“Disclosures to Secretary of Title 16 (“Suspension and Debarment of
21 Contractors”), or Title 17 (“Special Provisions – State and Local Subdivisions”) of this
22 article, with the approval of the head of a unit, its procurement officer may make an
23 emergency procurement by any method that the procurement officer considers most
24 appropriate to avoid or mitigate serious damage to public health, safety, or welfare.

25 (8) (i) This paragraph applies only to the award of a contract or a
26 contract modification made under this subsection that, with prior modifications, exceeds
[$50,000] § 13–10927 THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS
28 SUBTITLE.

29 (d) (1) Except as provided in § 11–205 (“Collusion”), § 10–204 (“Approval for
30 designated contracts”), § 13–219 (“Required clauses – Nondiscrimination clause”),
[§ State”),]31 13–221 (“Disclosures to Secretary of Title 16 (“Suspension and Debarment of
32 Contractors”), or Title 17 (“Special Provisions – State and Local Subdivisions”) of this
~~[Board]~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~33 article, with the approval of the head of the unit and the
~~OFFICER~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER’S~~34 ~~DESIGNEE,~~ a unit’s procurement~~OR~~ ~~THE~~
35 officer may make a procurement on an expedited basis if the head of the unit and the
~~[Board]~~ ~~UNIT,~~36 ~~HEAD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRIMARY~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~HEAD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRIMARY~~

PAGE 17
HOUSE BILL 500 17

~~UNIT’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE,~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER,~~ ~~CHIEF~~1 ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OR~~
~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER’S~~2 find that:~~DESIGNEE~~

3 (i) urgent circumstances require prompt action;

4 (ii) an expedited procurement best serves the public interest; and

5 (iii) the need for the expedited procurement outweighs the benefits of
6 making the procurement on the basis of competitive sealed bids or competitive sealed
7 proposals.

8 (2) The procurement officer shall attempt to obtain as much competition as
~~STATE~~9 reasonably possible ~~TO~~ ~~OBTAIN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BEST~~ ~~VALUE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~THE~~
10 ~~PROCUREMENT.~~~~LIMITATIONS~~ ~~REQUIRING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~USE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EXPEDITED~~

~~(3)~~ ~~AFTER~~11 ~~AWARDING~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EXPEDITED~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~CONTRACT~~
~~SUBSECTION,~~12 ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~A~~ ~~UNIT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EXPEDITED~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~
~~BOARD.~~13 ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~JUSTIFICATION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

14 13–109.

(F) IF15 A PRIMARY PROCUREMENT UNIT DETERMINES THAT A UNIT DOES
REGULATIONS,16 NOT ADHERE TO THE ESTABLISHED SMALL PROCUREMENT THE
UNIT’S17 PRIMARY PROCUREMENT UNIT MAY LIMIT OR REVOKE A ABILITY TO
PROCUREMENTS.18 CONDUCT SMALL

19 13–110.

20 (b) (7) If a primary procurement unit sponsors or participates in an
21 intergovernmental cooperative purchasing agreement, the intergovernmental cooperative
22 purchasing agreement shall be:

by:23 (i) approved

1. [unit]24 the head OF THE PRIMARY PROCUREMENT UNIT
UNIT’S DESIGNEE;25 OR THE HEAD OF THE PRIMARY PROCUREMENT OR

2. CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER CHIEF26 THE OR THE
PROCUREMENT OFFICER’S27 DESIGNEE; and

28 (ii) subject to any other approval required by law.

[13–112.1.29

30 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

PAGE 18
18 HOUSE BILL 500

1 (2) “Aggregator” means a person that:

2 (i) provides or contracts for environmental outcomes; or

3 (ii) provides or raises capital to finance delivery of environmental
4 outcomes.

5 (3) “Environmental outcome” means a commodity that is modeled or
6 directly measured as a single, quantifiable, and certified unit of improvement to the
7 environment, including a nutrient or carbon benefit.

8 (4) “Environmental outcomes project” means a project designed to secure
9 environmental outcomes.

10 (5) “Evaluator” means a person other than an aggregator that determines
11 whether environmental outcomes have been achieved based on defined performance
12 measures.

13 (6) “Outcome payment” means the money paid when a pay–for–success
14 contract performance measure is met.

15 (7) “Quantification plan” means a plan in which an aggregator describes:

16 (i) the method that will be used to measure or model environmental
17 outcomes and co–benefits under a pay–for–success contract;

18 (ii) the compliance monitoring that will occur to ensure that the
19 actions proposed in the pay–for–success contract are taken and maintained over the life of
20 the project;

21 (iii) verification steps that will be carried out by the State to confirm
22 model results or accurate measurement of environmental outcomes; and

23 (iv) the timeline for proposed payments under the pay–for–success
24 contract.

25 (b) The General Assembly finds and declares that:

26 (1) pay–for–success contracting shifts the risk of performance to the
27 contractor because government payment is made only on achievement of outcomes;

28 (2) social and environmental impact investment is growing dramatically,
29 and investors are seeking ways to finance and execute pay–for–success contracts in the
30 State to expand the success of Chesapeake Bay restoration efforts and achieve other public
31 outcomes; and

PAGE 19
HOUSE BILL 500 19

1 (3) it is in the best interest of the State to include pay–for–success
2 contracting as a procurement option, particularly for units responsible for land
3 conservation and environmental protection, enhancement, and restoration.

4 (c) A unit may enter into a pay–for–success contract only if the procurement
5 officer of the unit determines that:

6 (1) the contract will produce estimated financial savings or other
7 quantifiable public benefits for the State; and

8 (2) a substantial portion of the outcome payment due under the contract
9 will be paid only after specific outcomes have been documented.

10 (d) (1) This subsection applies only to procurements by:

11 (i) the Department of Agriculture;

12 (ii) the Department of the Environment;

13 (iii) the Department of Natural Resources;

14 (iv) the Department of Transportation;

15 (v) the Maryland Environmental Service; and

16 (vi) the Department of General Services.

17 (2) This subsection does not apply to the purchase of nitrogen load
18 reductions with funds from the Clean Water Commerce Account of the Bay Restoration
19 Fund established under § 9–1605.2 of the Environment Article.

20 (3) (i) A unit specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection may enter into
21 a pay–for–success contract with an aggregator to procure:

22 1. delivery of an environmental outcomes project; or

23 2. already certified environmental outcomes.

24 (ii) Other State and local entities may participate in a
25 pay–for–success contract under this subsection in accordance with an intergovernmental
26 cooperative purchasing agreement under § 13–110 of this subtitle.

27 (4) A pay–for–success contract executed under this subsection shall
28 include:

29 (i) a quantification plan approved by the unit;

PAGE 20
20 HOUSE BILL 500

1 (ii) a statement of the environmental outcomes to be procured under
2 the contract and a description of how defined performance measures will demonstrate
3 progress in achieving these outcomes;

4 (iii) requirements regarding the content and frequency of progress
5 reports regarding the achievement of environmental outcomes;

6 (iv) a methodology for calculating the amount and timing of outcome
7 payments to an aggregator when the evaluator determines that the aggregator has
8 achieved a defined performance measure;

9 (v) a statement that the basis of payment is the determination of
10 achievement of environmental outcomes by the evaluator and that payments for those
11 outcomes do not require itemized billing or cost documentation by the aggregator; and

12 (vi) terms addressing:

13 1. compliance with State law;

14 2. nondiscrimination in employment;

15 3. contractor indemnification;

16 4. termination for default; and

17 5. the unit’s right to inspect the environmental outcomes
18 project.

19 (5) A pay–for–success contract executed under this subsection may include
20 provisions regarding:

21 (i) long–term maintenance and monitoring of environmental
22 services, including the establishment of a stewardship fund;

23 (ii) a requirement that the unit hold contract funds in a reserve
24 account for outcome payments;

25 (iii) for agriculture services, payment for achievement of baseline
26 water quality requirements for nitrogen, phosphorus, or sediment; or

27 (iv) terminations prior to the first payment under the contract for the
28 purpose of selling environmental outcomes without penalty to another entity or for any
29 other reason.

30 (e) (1) (i) Beginning July 2025 and every 3 years thereafter, the Maryland
31 Environmental Service shall review and evaluate the results of all pay–for–success
32 contracts completed under this section for the previous 3 fiscal years.

PAGE 21
HOUSE BILL 500 21

1 (ii) The first review conducted under subparagraph (i) of this
2 paragraph shall include a review of all pay–for–success contracts completed under this
3 section between July 1, 2022, and June 30, 2025.

4 (2) The review conducted under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall
5 include:

6 (i) the cost of each project performed under a contract;

7 (ii) the length of time taken to complete the project, from the date of
8 notice to proceed until completion;

9 (iii) the average cost and project duration for each project type; and

10 (iv) whether each project met the terms of its contract.

11 (3) Each unit that enters into a pay–for–success contract under this section
12 shall execute an agreement with the Maryland Environmental Service to reimburse the
13 Service for each of the unit’s completed contracts the Service reviews under this section.

14 (4) The Maryland Environmental Service shall provide copies of each
15 review conducted under this subsection to:

16 (i) each unit for which the Service reviewed and evaluated a
17 contract; and

18 (ii) in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, the
19 Senate Education, Health, and Environmental Affairs Committee, the Senate Budget and
20 Taxation Committee, the House Environment and Transportation Committee, and the
Committee.]21 House Appropriations

22 13–113.

THIS23 (d) (1) SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A TASK ORDER
§ 14–50224 DESIGNATED AS A SMALL BUSINESS RESERVE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
ARTICLE.25 THIS

(2)26 Except as provided in subsection (f) of this section, if the unit of the
27 Executive Branch expects that the total cost of the services, supplies, or commodities will
[$100,000] $500,000,28 exceed the unit shall issue a solicitation for a task order to all master
29 contractors in the appropriate category established by the designated procurement unit.

[(2)] (3)30 If the unit of the Executive Branch expects that the total cost of
[be] [or less]31 the services, supplies, or commodities will $100,000EXCEED BUT WILL NOT
$500,000,32 the unit shall issue a solicitation for a task order to a minimum of sixEXCEED

PAGE 22
22 HOUSE BILL 500

1 qualified master contractors ON A ROTATING BASIS FOR MASTER CONTRACTS
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER2 or all master contractors,DESIGNATED BY THE
3 whichever is less, in the appropriate category established by the designated procurement
4 unit.

(4) IF EXECUTIVE BRANCH5 THE UNIT OF THE EXPECTS THAT THE
SERVICES, SUPPLIES, $100,0006 TOTAL COST OF THE OR COMMODITIES WILL BE OR
LESS,7 THE UNIT SHALL ISSUE A SOLICITATION FOR A TASK ORDER TO A MINIMUM OF
8 THREE QUALIFIED MASTER CONTRACTORS ON A ROTATING BASIS FOR MASTER
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER9 CONTRACTS DESIGNATED BY THE OR ALL MASTER
CONTRACTORS, FEWER,10 WHICHEVER IS IN THE APPROPRIATE CATEGORY
UNIT.11 ESTABLISHED BY THE DESIGNATED PROCUREMENT

(1)12 (e) Except as provided in subsection (f) of this section, after a unit of the
13 Executive Branch receives responses from master contractors to a solicitation for a task
14 order, the unit shall evaluate the responses and may select a master contractor based on
15 the response that is determined to be the most advantageous to the State considering the
16 evaluation factors set forth in the task order.

(2) EXCEPT (3) SUBSECTION,17 AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
18 ORAL PRESENTATIONS ARE REQUIRED PRIOR TO SELECTING A MASTER
WHEN:19 CONTRACTOR

(I)20 THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE TASK ORDER IS EXPECTED TO
$2,000,000 SERVICES;21 EXCEED FOR ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING

(II)22 THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE TASK ORDER IS EXPECTED TO
$10,000,000 SERVICES;23 EXCEED FOR CONSTRUCTION AND CONSTRUCTION RELATED
24 OR

(III) PROCUREMENT,25 FOR ALL OTHER INCLUDING INFORMATION
SERVICES,26 TECHNOLOGY AND PROFESSIONAL WHEN THE TOTAL VALUE OF THE TASK
$5,000,000.27 ORDER IS EXPECTED TO EXCEED

(3) IF28 THE PROCUREMENT OFFICER MAKES A WRITTEN
29 DETERMINATION THAT ORAL PRESENTATIONS ARE UNLIKELY TO AID IN THE
PROCESS, REQUIRED.30 EVALUATION ORAL PRESENTATIONS WILL NOT BE

[(e)] (E)(1)31 (f) The requirements of subsections (c)(2), (d), and of this section do
32 not apply to a master contract for construction if the master contract:

33 (1) is awarded through a competitive process in accordance with this
34 subtitle; and

35 (2) states:

PAGE 23
HOUSE BILL 500 23

1 (i) how task orders will be awarded; and

2 (ii) the maximum number of qualified contractors that will be
3 awarded a master contract for construction.

4 ~~13–206.~~

~~[Board]~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER~~5 ~~(b)~~ ~~If,~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~approval~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~OR~~
~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER’S~~6 ~~DESIGNEE,~~ ~~a~~ ~~unit~~ ~~determines~~ ~~that~~ ~~it~~ ~~is~~ ~~fiscally~~~~THE~~
7 ~~advantageous~~ ~~or~~ ~~otherwise~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~best~~ ~~interests~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~State,~~ ~~the~~ ~~unit~~ ~~may:~~

8 ~~(1)~~ ~~cancel~~ ~~an~~ ~~invitation~~ ~~for~~ ~~bids,~~ ~~a~~ ~~request~~ ~~for~~ ~~proposals,~~ ~~or~~ ~~other~~
9 ~~solicitation;~~ ~~or~~

10 ~~(2)~~ ~~reject~~ ~~all~~ ~~bids~~ ~~or~~ ~~proposals.~~

11 13–207.

12 (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a procurement officer may not
13 require a bidder or offeror to provide bid security on a procurement contract if the
[$100,000 or]14 procurement officer expects the price to be less THAN OR EQUAL TO THE
§ 13–10915 TITLE.SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS

16 (b) (1) A procurement officer shall require a bidder or offeror to provide bid
17 security on a procurement contract for construction if:

[$100,000]18 (i) the price is expected to exceed THE SMALL
§ 13–10919 TITLE; orPROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS

[the but]20 (ii) price is expected to be $100,000 or less REQUIRED BY
21 federal law or a condition of federal assistance requires the security.

22 (2) The amount of bid security required for a procurement contract for
23 construction shall be:

24 (i) at least 5% of the bid or price proposal; or

25 (ii) if the bid or price proposal states a rate but not a total price, an
26 amount determined by the procurement officer.

27 (c) (1) A procurement officer may require a bidder or offeror to provide bid
28 security on a procurement contract for services, supplies, or construction related services if
[$50,000]29 the price of the procurement contract is expected to exceed THE SMALL
§ 13–10930 TITLE.PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS

PAGE 24
24 HOUSE BILL 500

1 13–216.

2 (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, a procurement officer may
3 not require a contractor to provide a performance bond, payment bond, or other security on
4 a procurement contract for construction, construction related services, services, or supplies
[$100,000 or]5 if the price of the procurement contract is less THAN OR EQUAL TO THE
§ 13–1096 TITLE.SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS

7 (b) A procurement officer shall require a contractor to provide a performance
8 bond, payment bond, or other security if federal law or a condition of federal assistance
9 requires the security.

[$100,000]10 (c) If the price of a procurement contract for construction exceeds THE
§ 13–10911 SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS TITLE FOR
12 CONSTRUCTION, a procurement officer shall require a contractor to provide security as
13 required under Title 17, Subtitle 1 of this article.

14 (d) A procurement officer may require a contractor to provide a performance bond
15 or other security on a procurement contract for supplies, services, or construction related
16 services if:

17 (1) circumstances warrant security; and

[$100,000]18 (2) the price of the procurement contract exceeds THE SMALL
§ 13–10919 TITLE.PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS

20 (e) (1) The Board shall adopt regulations to establish separate surety bond
21 forms for procurement officers to use to require security for:

22 (i) fixed–price contracts; and

23 (ii) multiyear contracts.

24 (2) The form for multiyear contracts shall provide for annual and
25 renewable contracts.

13–228.26

(A) (1) IN27 THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.28

(2) “AGGREGATOR” THAT:29 MEANS A PERSON

(I)30 PROVIDES OR CONTRACTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
OUTCOMES;31 OR

PAGE 25
HOUSE BILL 500 25

(II)1 PROVIDES OR RAISES CAPITAL TO FINANCE DELIVERY OF
OUTCOMES.2 ENVIRONMENTAL

(3) “ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOME”3 MEANS A COMMODITY THAT IS
SINGLE, QUANTIFIABLE,4 MODELED OR DIRECTLY MEASURED AS A AND CERTIFIED
ENVIRONMENT,5 UNIT OF IMPROVEMENT TO THE INCLUDING A NUTRIENT OR
BENEFIT.6 CARBON

(4) “ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT”7 OUTCOMES MEANS A PROJECT
OUTCOMES.8 DESIGNED TO SECURE ENVIRONMENTAL

(5) “EVALUATOR”9 MEANS A PERSON OTHER THAN AN AGGREGATOR
10 THAT DETERMINES WHETHER ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES HAVE BEEN ACHIEVED
MEASURES.11 BASED ON DEFINED PERFORMANCE

(6) “OUTCOME PAYMENT”12 MEANS THE MONEY PAID WHEN A
PAY–FOR–SUCCESS MET.13 CONTRACT PERFORMANCE MEASURE IS

(7) “QUANTIFICATION PLAN”14 MEANS A PLAN IN WHICH AN
DESCRIBES:15 AGGREGATOR

(I)16 THE METHOD THAT WILL BE USED TO MEASURE OR MODEL
CO–BENEFITS PAY–FOR–SUCCESS17 ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES AND UNDER A
CONTRACT;18

(II)19 THE COMPLIANCE MONITORING THAT WILL OCCUR TO
PAY–FOR–SUCCESS20 ENSURE THAT THE ACTIONS PROPOSED IN THE CONTRACT ARE
PROJECT;21 TAKEN AND MAINTAINED OVER THE LIFE OF THE

(III)22 VERIFICATION STEPS THAT WILL BE CARRIED OUT BY THE
STATE23 TO CONFIRM MODEL RESULTS OR ACCURATE MEASUREMENT OF
OUTCOMES;24 ENVIRONMENTAL AND

(IV)25 THE TIMELINE FOR PROPOSED PAYMENTS UNDER THE
PAY–FOR–SUCCESS CONTRACT.26

(B) THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY THAT:27 FINDS AND DECLARES

(1) PAY–FOR–SUCCESS28 CONTRACTING SHIFTS THE RISK OF
29 PERFORMANCE TO THE CONTRACTOR BECAUSE GOVERNMENT PAYMENT IS MADE
OUTCOMES;30 ONLY ON ACHIEVEMENT OF

(2)31 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT INVESTMENT IS GROWING
DRAMATICALLY,32 AND INVESTORS ARE SEEKING WAYS TO FINANCE AND EXECUTE

PAGE 26
26 HOUSE BILL 500

PAY–FOR–SUCCESS STATE1 CONTRACTS IN THE TO EXPAND THE SUCCESS OF
CHESAPEAKE BAY2 RESTORATION EFFORTS AND ACHIEVE OTHER PUBLIC
OUTCOMES;3 AND

(3) STATE4 IT IS IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE TO INCLUDE
PAY–FOR–SUCCESS OPTION,5 CONTRACTING AS A CONTRACTING PARTICULARLY FOR
6 UNITS RESPONSIBLE FOR LAND CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION, ENHANCEMENT, RESTORATION.7 AND

(C) A PAY–FOR–SUCCESS8 UNIT MAY ENTER INTO A CONTRACT ONLY IF THE
THAT:9 PROCUREMENT OFFICER OF THE UNIT DETERMINES

(1)10 THE CONTRACT WILL PRODUCE ESTIMATED FINANCIAL SAVINGS
STATE;11 OR OTHER QUANTIFIABLE PUBLIC BENEFITS FOR THE AND

(2)12 A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF THE OUTCOME PAYMENT DUE UNDER
13 THE CONTRACT WILL BE PAID ONLY AFTER SPECIFIC OUTCOMES HAVE BEEN
DOCUMENTED.14

(D) (1) THIS BY:15 SUBSECTION APPLIES ONLY TO CONTRACTS

(I) DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURE;16 THE OF

(II) DEPARTMENT ENVIRONMENT;17 THE OF THE

(III) DEPARTMENT NATURAL RESOURCES;18 THE OF

(IV) DEPARTMENT TRANSPORTATION;19 THE OF

(V) MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICE;20 THE AND

(VI) DEPARTMENT GENERAL SERVICES.21 THE OF

(2) THIS22 SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO THE PURCHASE OF
CLEAN WATER COMMERCE23 NITROGEN LOAD REDUCTIONS WITH FUNDS FROM THE
ACCOUNT BAY RESTORATION FUND § 9–1605.224 OF THE ESTABLISHED UNDER OF
ENVIRONMENT ARTICLE.25 THE

(3) (I) A (1)26 UNIT SPECIFIED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
PAY–FOR–SUCCESS27 MAY ENTER INTO A CONTRACT WITH AN AGGREGATOR TO
PURCHASE:28

1.29 DELIVERY OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES
PROJECT;30 OR

PAGE 27
HOUSE BILL 500 27

2. OUTCOMES.1 ALREADY CERTIFIED ENVIRONMENTAL

(II) OTHER STATE2 AND LOCAL ENTITIES MAY PARTICIPATE IN A
PAY–FOR–SUCCESS3 CONTRACT UNDER THIS SUBSECTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH AN
§ 13–1104 INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATIVE PURCHASING AGREEMENT UNDER
TITLE.5 OF THIS

(4) A PAY–FOR–SUCCESS6 CONTRACT EXECUTED UNDER THIS
INCLUDE:7 SUBSECTION SHALL

(I) UNIT;8 A QUANTIFICATION PLAN APPROVED BY THE

(II)9 A STATEMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES TO BE
10 PROCURED UNDER THE CONTRACT AND A DESCRIPTION OF HOW DEFINED
11 PERFORMANCE MEASURES WILL DEMONSTRATE PROGRESS IN ACHIEVING THESE
OUTCOMES;12

(III)13 REQUIREMENTS REGARDING THE CONTENT AND
14 FREQUENCY OF PROGRESS REPORTS REGARDING THE ACHIEVEMENT OF
OUTCOMES;15 ENVIRONMENTAL

(IV)16 A METHODOLOGY FOR CALCULATING THE AMOUNT AND
17 TIMING OF OUTCOME PAYMENTS TO AN AGGREGATOR WHEN THE EVALUATOR
18 DETERMINES THAT THE AGGREGATOR HAS ACHIEVED A DEFINED PERFORMANCE
MEASURE;19

(V)20 A STATEMENT THAT THE BASIS OF PAYMENT IS THE
21 DETERMINATION OF ACHIEVEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES BY THE
22 EVALUATOR AND THAT PAYMENTS FOR THOSE OUTCOMES DO NOT REQUIRE
AGGREGATOR;23 ITEMIZED BILLING OR COST DOCUMENTATION BY THE AND

(VI) ADDRESSING:24 TERMS

1. STATE LAW;25 COMPLIANCE WITH

2. EMPLOYMENT;26 NONDISCRIMINATION IN

3. INDEMNIFICATION;27 CONTRACTOR

4. DEFAULT;28 TERMINATION FOR AND

5. UNIT’S29 THE RIGHT TO INSPECT THE ENVIRONMENTAL
PROJECT.30 OUTCOMES

PAGE 28
28 HOUSE BILL 500

(5) A PAY–FOR–SUCCESS1 CONTRACT EXECUTED UNDER THIS
REGARDING:2 SUBSECTION MAY INCLUDE PROVISIONS

(I) LONG–TERM3 MAINTENANCE AND MONITORING OF
SERVICES,4 ENVIRONMENTAL INCLUDING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A STEWARDSHIP
FUND;5

(II)6 A REQUIREMENT THAT THE UNIT HOLD CONTRACT FUNDS
PAYMENTS;7 IN A RESERVE ACCOUNT FOR OUTCOME

(III) SERVICES,8 FOR AGRICULTURE PAYMENT FOR
NITROGEN,9 ACHIEVEMENT OF BASELINE WATER QUALITY REQUIREMENTS FOR
PHOSPHORUS, SEDIMENT;10 OR OR

(IV)11 TERMINATIONS PRIOR TO THE FIRST PAYMENT UNDER THE
12 CONTRACT FOR THE PURPOSE OF SELLING ENVIRONMENTAL OUTCOMES WITHOUT
REASON.13 PENALTY TO ANOTHER ENTITY OR FOR ANY OTHER

(E) (1) BEGINNING JULY 2025 3 THEREAFTER,14 AND EVERY YEARS THE
MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICE15 SHALL REVIEW AND EVALUATE THE
PAY–FOR–SUCCESS16 RESULTS OF ALL CONTRACTS COMPLETED UNDER THIS SECTION
3 YEARS.17 FOR THE PREVIOUS FISCAL

(2) THE (1)18 REVIEW CONDUCTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
INCLUDE:19 SUBSECTION SHALL

(I)20 THE COST OF EACH PROJECT PERFORMED UNDER A
CONTRACT;21

(II) PROJECT,22 THE LENGTH OF TIME TAKEN TO COMPLETE THE
COMPLETION;23 FROM THE DATE OF NOTICE TO PROCEED UNTIL

(III)24 THE AVERAGE COST AND PROJECT DURATION FOR EACH
TYPE;25 PROJECT AND

(IV)26 WHETHER EACH PROJECT MET THE TERMS OF ITS
CONTRACT.27

(3) EACH PAY–FOR–SUCCESS28 UNIT THAT ENTERS INTO A CONTRACT
MARYLAND29 UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL EXECUTE AN AGREEMENT WITH THE
ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICE MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL30 TO REIMBURSE THE
SERVICE UNIT’S MARYLAND31 FOR EACH OF THE COMPLETED CONTRACTS THE
ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICE SECTION.32 REVIEWS UNDER THIS

PAGE 29
HOUSE BILL 500 29

(4) THE MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICE1 SHALL PROVIDE
TO:2 COPIES OF EACH REVIEW CONDUCTED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION

(I) MARYLAND ENVIRONMENTAL3 EACH UNIT FOR WHICH THE
SERVICE CONTRACT;4 REVIEWED AND EVALUATED A AND

(II) § 2–1257 STATE5 IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, SENATE COMMITTEE EDUCATION, ENERGY,6 THE ON AND
ENVIRONMENT, SENATE BUDGET TAXATION COMMITTEE,7 THE THE AND THE
HOUSE ENVIRONMENT TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE, HOUSE8 AND AND THE
APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE.9

13–229.10

(A) BEFORE11 A UNIT AWARDS ANY PROCUREMENT CONTRACT FOR AN
$500,000,12 AMOUNT ABOVE THE RECOMMENDED AWARDEE MAY BE REQUIRED TO
OFFICER.13 SUBMIT A WORKFORCE DIVERSITY PLAN TO THE PROCUREMENT

(B) BEFORE14 A UNIT AWARDS ANY PROCUREMENT CONTRACT FOR AN
$250,000,15 AMOUNT ABOVE THE RECOMMENDED AWARDEE MAY BE REQUIRED TO
OFFICER.16 SUBMIT A SUPPLIER DIVERSITY PLAN TO THE PROCUREMENT

(C) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE SMALL, MINORITY, WOMEN17 OF AND
BUSINESS AFFAIRS OFFICE STATE PROCUREMENT18 IN CONSULTATION WITH THE OF
INCLUDE:19 SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS SECTION THAT

(1)20 SUGGESTED CONTENT TO BE INCLUDED IN A WORKFORCE OR
PLAN;21 SUPPLIER DIVERSITY AND

(2)22 GUIDANCE FOR UNITS TO COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF
SECTION.23 THIS

24 14–106.

25 (a) In this section, “Committee” means the Pricing and Selection Committee for
26 Preferred Providers.

27 (b) There is a Pricing and Selection Committee for Preferred Providers.

[5] 628 (c) The Committee consists of the following members:

29 (1) the Secretary of Transportation or a designee;

PAGE 30
30 HOUSE BILL 500

[Secretary Services] CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER1 (2) the of General
2 or a designee;

3 (3) the Secretary of Public Safety and Correctional Services or a designee;

4 (4) the Assistant Secretary for Vocational Rehabilitation within the State
[and]5 Department of Education or a designee;

designee;6 (5) the Secretary of Labor or a AND

(6) SPECIAL SECRETARY OFFICE SMALL,7 THE FOR THE OF
MINORITY, WOMEN BUSINESS AFFAIRS8 DESIGNEE.AND OR A

9 14–108.

[Department10 (b) There is an Employment Works Program in the of General
Services] GOVERNOR’S OFFICE SMALL, MINORITY, WOMEN BUSINESS11 OF AND
AFFAIRS.12

SPECIAL [of Services] OFFICE SMALL,13 (c) The Secretary General FOR THE OF
MINORITY, WOMEN BUSINESS AFFAIRS14 shall designate Maryland Works, Inc., orAND
15 another appropriate coordinating entity, to facilitate the distribution of procurement
16 contracts for supplies and services among community service providers and individual with
17 disability owned businesses.

18 14–203.

[Board] SPECIAL SECRETARY OFFICE19 (a) By regulation, the FOR THE OF
SMALL, MINORITY, WOMEN BUSINESS AFFAIRS20 shall specify the criteria that aAND
21 business must meet to qualify as a small business.

22 14–204.

[Board] SPECIAL SECRETARY OFFICE SMALL, MINORITY,23 The FOR THE OF
WOMEN BUSINESS AFFAIRS24 shall adopt regulations to establish procedures for:AND

25 (1) compiling and maintaining a comprehensive bidder’s list of small
26 businesses;

27 (2) locating potential sources for various construction related services,
28 supplies, and services and affirmatively seeking to locate potential minority business
29 enterprise sources for those construction related services, supplies, and services;

30 (3) helping small businesses to comply with the procedures for bidding on
31 procurement contracts;

PAGE 31
HOUSE BILL 500 31

1 (4) examining requests for construction related services, supplies, and
2 services to determine when an invitation for bids may be designated for the Small Business
3 Preference Program;

4 (5) bidding for a procurement contract designated for a small business
5 preference;

6 (6) simplifying procurement specifications and terms, to increase the
7 opportunities for small business participation;

8 (7) investigating the responsibility of bidders on small business
9 preferences; and

10 (8) explaining to a small business the reason for which its bid for a small
11 business preference was rejected.

12 14–205.

[Board] SPECIAL SECRETARY13 The Department of Commerce shall help the FOR
OFFICE SMALL, MINORITY, WOMEN BUSINESS AFFAIRS14 in establishingTHE OF AND
15 procedures to carry out § 14–204(1) and (2) of this subtitle.

16 14–302.

17 (a) (1) (ii) 1. The overall percentage goal shall be established on a
18 biennial basis by the Special Secretary for the Office of Small, Minority, and Women
Transportation, CHIEF19 Business Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of THE
PROCUREMENT OFFICER,20 and the Attorney General.

Transportation,21 (iii) 1. In consultation with the Secretary of THE
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER,22 and the Attorney General, the Special Secretary for
23 the Office of Small, Minority, and Women Business Affairs shall establish guidelines on a
24 biennial basis for each unit to consider while determining whether to set subgoals for the
25 minority groups listed in § 14–301(k)(1)(i)1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 of this subtitle.

26 (iv) 1. The Special Secretary for the Office of Small, Minority,
Transportation,27 and Women Business Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of THE
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER,28 and the Attorney General, shall establish goals and
29 subgoal guidelines that, to the maximum extent feasible, approximate the level of minority
30 business enterprise participation that would be expected in the absence of discrimination.

31 (2) The Special Secretary for the Office of Small, Minority, and Women
Transportation, CHIEF32 Business Affairs, in consultation with the Secretary of THE
PROCUREMENT OFFICER,33 and the Attorney General, shall establish guidelines for each
34 unit to consider when determining the appropriate minority business enterprise

PAGE 32
32 HOUSE BILL 500

1 participation percentage goal for a procurement contract in accordance with paragraph (3)
2 of this subsection.

~~(8)~~ ~~A~~3 ~~UNIT~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~CONSIDER~~ ~~ADDING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INCREASING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MINORITY~~
~~CONTRACT:~~4 ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~PARTICIPATION~~ ~~GOAL~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~

~~(I)~~ ~~EXECUTION;~~5 ~~AT~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~TIME~~ ~~PRIOR~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONTRACT~~

~~(II)~~ ~~EXECUTION,~~6 ~~AFTER~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~DETERMINED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~BE~~
~~STATE;~~7 ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BEST~~ ~~INTEREST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(III)~~8 ~~WHEN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MINORITY~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~ENTERPRISE~~
~~AMENDED.~~9 ~~PARTICIPATION~~ ~~SCHEDULE~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~BEEN~~ ~~CREATED~~ ~~OR~~

(8) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,10 TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS A
11 UNIT MAY CONSIDER MODIFYING THE MINORITY BUSINESS PARTICIPATION GOAL ON
CONTRACT:12 A PROCUREMENT

1. EXECUTION;13 AT ANY TIME PRIOR TO CONTRACT OR

2. EXECUTION,14 AFTER CONTRACT WHEN DETERMINED
STATE.15 TO BE IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE

(II) BEFORE16 A UNIT MAY CONSIDER MODIFYING A MINORITY
(I) PARAGRAPH,17 BUSINESS PARTICIPATION GOAL UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
SHALL:18 THE UNIT

1.19 MAKE A DETERMINATION THAT THERE HAS BEEN A
(3)20 CHANGE IN THE FACTORS ESTABLISHED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION;21

2.22 USE THE FACTORS ESTABLISHED UNDER PARAGRAPH
(3)23 OF THIS SUBSECTION TO DETERMINE THE PERCENTAGE MODIFICATION TO THE
GOAL;24 MINORITY BUSINESS PARTICIPATION AND

3. CONTRACTOR,25 OBTAIN THE AGREEMENT OF THE
CONSIDERATIONS.26 INCLUDING ANY REASONABLE PRICING

[(8)] (9)27 The Special Secretary for the Office of Small, Minority, and
28 Women Business Affairs shall:

Transportation,29 (i) in consultation with the Secretary of THE
CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER,30 and the Attorney General, establish procedures

PAGE 33
HOUSE BILL 500 33

1 governing how the participation of minority business enterprise prime contractors is
2 counted toward contract goals; and

3 (ii) notwithstanding § 12–101 of this article, adopt regulations
4 setting forth the procedures established in accordance with this paragraph.

[(9)] (10)5 (i) 1. If a contractor, including a certified minority
6 business enterprise, does not achieve all or a part of the minority business enterprise
7 participation goals on a contract, the unit shall make a finding of whether the contractor
8 has demonstrated that the contractor took all necessary and reasonable steps to achieve
9 the goals, including compliance with paragraph (7) of this subsection.

10 2. A waiver of any part of the minority business enterprise
11 goals for a contract shall be granted if a contractor provides a reasonable demonstration of
12 good–faith efforts to achieve the goals.

13 (ii) If the unit determines that a waiver should be granted in
14 accordance with subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, the unit may not require the contractor
15 to renegotiate any subcontract in order to achieve a different result.

16 (iii) The head of the unit may waive any of the requirements of this
17 subsection relating to the establishment, use, and waiver of contract goals for a sole source,
18 expedited, or emergency procurement in which the public interest cannot reasonably
19 accommodate use of those requirements.

20 (iv) 1. Except for waivers granted in accordance with
21 subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph, when a waiver determination is made, the unit shall
22 issue the determination in writing.

23 2. The head of the unit shall:

24 A. keep one copy of the waiver determination and the reasons
25 for the determination; and

26 B. forward one copy of the waiver determination to the
27 Governor’s Office of Small, Minority, and Women Business Affairs.

28 (v) On or before July 31 of each year, each unit shall submit directly
29 to the Board of Public Works and the Governor’s Office of Small, Minority, and Women
30 Business Affairs an annual report of waivers requested and waivers granted under this
31 paragraph.

32 (vi) The report required under subparagraph (v) of this paragraph
33 shall contain the following information on those contracts where the unit considered a
34 contractor’s request for waiver of all or a portion of the minority business enterprise goals:

35 1. the contract titles, numbers, and dates;

PAGE 34
34 HOUSE BILL 500

1 2. the number of waiver requests received;

2 3. the number of waiver requests granted; and

3 4. any other information specifically requested by the Board.

[(10)] (11) [1.]4 (i) This paragraph applies to a bidder or offeror after
5 submission of a bid or proposal and before the execution of a contract with an expected
6 degree of minority business enterprise participation.

[2.7 If the bidder or offeror determines that a minority
8 business enterprise identified in the minority business enterprise participation schedule
9 has become or will become unavailable or ineligible to perform the work required under the
10 contract, the bidder or offeror shall notify the unit within 72 hours of making the
determination.]11

[(ii)12 1. If a minority business enterprise identified in the minority
13 business enterprise participation schedule submitted with a bid or offer has become or will
14 become unavailable or ineligible to perform the work required under the contract, the
15 bidder or offeror may submit a written request with the unit to amend the minority
16 business enterprise participation schedule.

17 2. The request to amend the minority business enterprise
18 participation schedule shall indicate the bidder’s or offeror’s efforts to substitute another
19 certified minority business enterprise to perform the work that the unavailable or ineligible
20 minority business enterprise would have performed.

21 (iii) A minority business enterprise participation schedule may not
22 be amended unless:

23 1. the bidder or offeror provides a satisfactory explanation of
24 the reason for inclusion of the unavailable or ineligible firm on the minority business
25 enterprise participation schedule; and

26 2. the amendment is approved by the unit’s procurement
liaison.]27 officer after consulting with the unit’s minority business enterprise

(II) 1. IF UNIT’S28 A PROCUREMENT OFFICER DETERMINES
29 THAT A DEFICIENCY EXISTS IN THE MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
SCHEDULE,30 PARTICIPATION THE PROCUREMENT OFFICER SHALL NOTIFY THE
31 BIDDER OR OFFEROR OF THE DEFICIENCY AND REQUIRE THE BIDDER OR OFFEROR
32 TO SUBMIT AN AMENDED MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE PARTICIPATION
PERIOD.33 SCHEDULE WITHIN A REASONABLE TIME

PAGE 35
HOUSE BILL 500 35

2. A 11 DETERMINATION UNDER SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF
UNIT’S2 THIS SUBPARAGRAPH SHALL BE MADE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
LIAISON.3 MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE

3. AS4 DIRECTED BY THE NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER
1 SUBPARAGRAPH,5 SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS THE BIDDER OR OFFEROR SHALL
6 SUBMIT AN AMENDED MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE PARTICIPATION SCHEDULE
IDENTIFIED.7 CORRECTING THE DEFICIENCY

[(11)] (12)8 (i) This paragraph applies after execution of a contract with
9 an expected degree of minority business enterprise participation.

10 (ii) The minority business enterprise participation schedule,
11 including any amendment, shall be attached to and made a part of the executed contract.

12 (iii) 1. A. Except as provided in subsubsubparagraph B of this
13 subsubparagraph, for purposes of this subparagraph, good cause for removal of a certified
14 minority business enterprise after contract execution includes documented
15 nonperformance by the minority business enterprise or election by the certified minority
16 business enterprise to cease work on the contract.

17 B. Failure of a certified minority business enterprise to
18 provide a bond requested by a contractor in violation of § 13–227 of this article may not be
19 considered nonperformance by the minority business enterprise.

20 2. A contractor may not terminate or otherwise cancel the
21 contract of a certified minority business enterprise subcontractor listed in the minority
22 business enterprise participation schedule without showing good cause and obtaining the
23 prior written consent of the minority business enterprise liaison and approval of the head
24 of the unit.

25 3. The unit shall send a copy of the written consent obtained
26 under subsubparagraph 2 of this subparagraph to the Governor’s Office of Small, Minority,
27 and Women Business Affairs.

[not]28 (iv) A minority business enterprise participation schedule may
29 be amended TO ~~ADD~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INCREASE~~ MODIFY MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
[unless is] IF:30 after the date of contract execution the requestPARTICIPATION ONLY

1. STATE;31 IT IS IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE

2. unit;32 approved by the head of the andIT IS

3.33 the contract is amended.

PAGE 36
36 HOUSE BILL 500

[(12)] (13)1 If, during the performance of a contract, a certified minority
2 business enterprise contractor or subcontractor becomes ineligible to participate in the
3 Minority Business Enterprise Program because one or more of its owners has a personal
4 net worth that exceeds the amount specified in § 14–301(k)(3) of this subtitle:

5 (i) that ineligibility alone may not cause the termination of the
6 certified minority business enterprise’s contractual relationship for the remainder of the
7 term of the contract; and

8 (ii) the certified minority business enterprise’s participation under
9 the contract shall continue to be counted toward the program and contract goals.

[(13)] (14)10 (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
11 a nonprofit entity participating as a minority business enterprise on a procurement
12 contract awarded by a unit before July 1, 2015, may continue to participate in the contract
13 until the contract expires or otherwise terminates, including all options, renewals, and
14 other extensions.

15 (ii) 1. The nonprofit entity’s participation may not be counted
16 toward achieving the minority business enterprise participation goals in this subsection.

17 2. The unit may not require that a certified minority
18 business enterprise be substituted for the nonprofit entity in order to meet the minority
19 business enterprise goals for the procurement contract.

[(14)] (15) [(15)] (16)20 (i) For purposes of this paragraph and paragraph
21 of this subsection, “regular dealer”:

22 1. means a firm that owns, operates, or maintains a store, a
23 warehouse, or any other establishment in which the materials, supplies, articles, or
24 equipment are of the general character described by the specifications required under the
25 contract and are bought, kept in stock, or regularly sold or leased to the public in the usual
26 course of business; and

27 2. does not include a packager, a broker, a manufacturer’s
28 representative, or any other person that arranges or expedites transactions.

29 (ii) A unit may apply only 60% of the costs of the materials and
30 supplies provided by the certified minority business enterprise if the certified minority
31 business enterprise is a regular dealer for purposes of achieving the minority business
32 enterprise contract goal.

[(15)] (16)33 With respect to materials or supplies purchased from a certified
34 minority business enterprise that is neither a manufacturer nor a regular dealer:

PAGE 37
HOUSE BILL 500 37

1 (i) a unit may apply the entire amount of fees or commissions
2 charged for assistance in the procurement of the materials and supplies, fees, or
3 transportation charges for the delivery of materials and supplies required on a procurement
4 toward minority business enterprise contract goals, provided a unit determines the fees to
5 be reasonable and not excessive as compared with fees customarily allowed for similar
6 services; and

7 (ii) a unit may not apply any portion of the costs of the materials and
8 supplies toward minority business enterprise goals.

9 14–303.

10 (a) (1) (ii) The Board shall keep a record of information regarding any
[§ 14–302(a)(9)(i)] § 14–302(A)(10)(I)11 waivers requested in accordance with of this
12 subtitle and subsection (b)(12) of this section and submit a copy of the record to the General
13 Assembly on or before October 1 of each year, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
14 Government Article.

15 (b) These regulations shall include:

[§ 14–302(a)(9)] § 14–302(A)(10)16 (12) consistent with of this subtitle,
17 provisions relating to any circumstances under which a unit may waive obligations of the
18 contractor relating to minority business enterprise participation;

[monthly]19 (13) provisions requiring a submission to the unit by minority
[in days]20 business enterprises acknowledging all payments received the preceding 30 OR
21 ANY OTHER INFORMATION REQUESTED BASED ON CRITERIA ESTABLISHED BY THE
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE SMALL, MINORITY, WOMEN BUSINESS AFFAIRS22 underOF OR
23 a contract governed by this subtitle;

~~[(17)~~24 a requirement that a bid or proposal based on a solicitation with an
25 expected degree of minority business enterprise participation identify the specific
submission;]26 commitment of certified minority business enterprises at the time of

~~[(18)]~~ ~~(17)~~27 provisions promoting and providing for the counting and
28 reporting of certified minority business enterprises as prime contractors;

~~[(19)]~~ ~~(18)~~29 provisions establishing standards to require a minority business
30 enterprise to perform a commercially useful function on a contract;

~~[(20)]~~ ~~(19)~~31 a requirement that each unit work with the Governor’s Office of
32 Small, Minority, and Women Business Affairs to designate certain procurements as being
33 excluded from the requirements of § 14–302(a) of this subtitle;

~~[(21)]~~ ~~(20)~~34 provisions promoting and providing for the counting and
35 reporting of minority business enterprises certified as both a woman–owned business and

PAGE 38
38 HOUSE BILL 500

1 a business owned by a member of an ethnic or racial group in accordance with §
2 14–302(a)(5) of this subtitle; and

~~[(22)]~~ ~~(21)~~3 other provisions that the Board considers necessary or
4 appropriate to encourage participation by minority business enterprises and to protect the
5 integrity of the procurement process.

6 14–401.

7 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

[“Services”] SUBJECT (II)8 (5) (i) TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH, “SERVICES” [§ (2)] § 11–1019 has the meaning stated in 11–101(t)(1) and of
10 this article.

[§ 11–101(t)(3)] § 11–10111 (ii) Notwithstanding of this article,
12 “services” includes construction related services and energy performance contract services.

13 14–502.1.

14 (a) (1) This section applies to a procurement by any unit or agency of the
15 Executive Branch of State government for goods, supplies, services, maintenance,
16 construction, construction–related services, architectural services, or engineering services.

17 (2) This section does not apply to:

18 (i) procurements made under Subtitle 1 of this title;

19 (ii) procurements involving expenditures of federal dollars, to the
20 extent that inclusion in the small business reserve program conflicts with federal law or
21 grant provisions;

[(iii) $50,000;]22 procurements with a total dollar value under

[(iv)] (III)23 the procurement of human, social, cultural, or educational
24 services; or

[(v)] (IV)25 term and master contracts exempted under subsection (c)
26 of this section.

[between27 (b) (1) A procurement with a total dollar value $50,000 and
$500,000] $1,000,00028 shall be designated for the small business reserve.OF OR LESS

29 (2) Each unit or agency shall implement this subsection in a manner
30 consistent with all applicable statutes, including the requirements of Subtitle 3 of this title.

PAGE 39
HOUSE BILL 500 39

1 14–504.

2 (c) The procurement officer of a unit shall award a procurement contract
3 designated for a small business reserve to the small business that submits a responsive bid
4 OR A PROPOSAL THAT IS REASONABLY SUSCEPTIBLE OF BEING SELECTED FOR
5 that:AWARD

6 (1) is the lowest bid price;

7 (2) if the invitation for bids so provides, is the lowest evaluated bid price;
8 or

9 (3) is the bid or proposal most favorable to the State within the small
10 business reserve.

11 14–601.

12 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[means13 (b) “Veteran” an individual who is verified as having served on active duty
14 in the armed forces of the United States, other than for training, and was discharged or
dishonorable] §15 released under conditions other than HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
9–901 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.16 OF THE

17 (c) “Veteran–owned small business enterprise” means a for–profit business that:

18 (1) meets the size standards adopted by the United States Small Business
19 Administration in 13 C.F.R. 121.201 and any subsequent revision of that regulation; and

20 (2) is at least 51% owned by one or more individuals who:

21 (i) are veterans; and

22 (ii) control the management and daily operations of the business.

23 14–602.

24 (a) (1) A unit shall structure procurement procedures, consistent with the
25 purposes of this subtitle, to try to achieve or exceed an overall percentage goal of the unit’s
26 total dollar value of procurement contracts to be made directly or indirectly with
27 veteran–owned small business enterprises.

28 (2) The Office of Small, Minority, and Women Business Affairs shall adopt
29 regulations that establish the overall percentage goal.

PAGE 40
40 HOUSE BILL 500

1 (b) Solicitation documents shall state the expected percentage of veteran–owned
2 small business enterprise participation based, in part, on:

3 (1) the potential contracting opportunities available in the procurement
4 contract, including both prime contracting and subcontracting opportunities, as determined
5 through analysis of the scope of the work presented in the solicitation documents; and

6 (2) the availability of veteran–owned small business enterprises to respond
7 competitively to the potential contracting opportunities.

(C) (1) (I) THIS8 PARAGRAPH APPLIES TO A BIDDER OR OFFEROR
9 AFTER SUBMISSION OF A BID OR PROPOSAL AND BEFORE THE EXECUTION OF A
VETERAN–OWNED10 CONTRACT WITH AN EXPECTED DEGREE OF SMALL BUSINESS
PARTICIPATION.11 ENTERPRISE

(II) 1. IF UNIT’S12 A PROCUREMENT OFFICER DETERMINES
VETERAN–OWNED13 THAT A DEFICIENCY EXISTS IN THE SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
SCHEDULE,14 PARTICIPATION THE PROCUREMENT OFFICER SHALL NOTIFY THE
15 BIDDER OR OFFEROR OF THE DEFICIENCY AND REQUIRE THE BIDDER OR OFFEROR
VETERAN–OWNED16 TO SUBMIT AN AMENDED SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
PERIOD.17 PARTICIPATION SCHEDULE WITHIN A REASONABLE TIME

2. A 118 DETERMINATION UNDER SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF
UNIT’S19 THIS SUBPARAGRAPH SHALL BE MADE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
VETERAN–OWNED LIAISON.20 SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE

3. AS21 DIRECTED BY THE NOTIFICATION MADE UNDER
1 SUBPARAGRAPH,22 SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS THE BIDDER OR OFFEROR SHALL
VETERAN–OWNED23 SUBMIT AN AMENDED SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
IDENTIFIED.24 PARTICIPATION SCHEDULE CORRECTING THE DEFICIENCY

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~25 ~~UNIT~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~CONSIDER~~ ~~ADDING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INCREASING~~ ~~THE~~
~~VETERAN–OWNED~~26 ~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~PARTICIPATION~~ ~~GOAL~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~
~~CONTRACT:~~27

~~(I)~~ ~~EXECUTION;~~28 ~~AT~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~TIME~~ ~~PRIOR~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONTRACT~~

~~(II)~~ ~~EXECUTION,~~29 ~~AFTER~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~DETERMINED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~BE~~
~~STATE;~~30 ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BEST~~ ~~INTEREST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(III)~~ ~~VETERAN–OWNED~~31 ~~WHEN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESS~~
~~AMENDED.~~32 ~~ENTERPRISE~~ ~~PARTICIPATION~~ ~~SCHEDULE~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~BEEN~~ ~~CREATED~~ ~~OR~~

PAGE 41
HOUSE BILL 500 41

(2) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,1 TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS A
VETERAN–OWNED2 UNIT MAY CONSIDER MODIFYING THE SMALL BUSINESS
CONTRACT:3 PARTICIPATION GOAL ON A PROCUREMENT

1. EXECUTION;4 AT ANY TIME PRIOR TO CONTRACT OR

2. EXECUTION,5 AFTER CONTRACT WHEN DETERMINED
STATE.6 TO BE IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE

(II) BEFORE7 A UNIT MAY CONSIDER MODIFYING A
VETERAN–OWNED8 SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION GOAL UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH
(I) PARAGRAPH, SHALL:9 OF THIS THE UNIT

1.10 MAKE A DETERMINATION THAT THERE HAS BEEN A
(B) SECTION;11 CHANGE IN THE FACTORS ESTABLISHED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

2.12 USE THE FACTORS ESTABLISHED UNDER SUBSECTION
(B)13 OF THIS SECTION TO DETERMINE THE PERCENTAGE MODIFICATION TO THE
VETERAN–OWNED GOAL;14 SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION AND

3. CONTRACTOR,15 OBTAIN THE AGREEMENT OF THE
CONSIDERATIONS.16 INCLUDING ANY REASONABLE PRICING

(3) THE VETERAN–OWNED17 SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
SCHEDULE, AMENDMENT,18 PARTICIPATION INCLUDING ANY SHALL BE ATTACHED TO
CONTRACT.19 AND MADE A PART OF THE EXECUTED

(4) A VETERAN–OWNED20 SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
21 PARTICIPATION SCHEDULE MAY BE AMENDED TO ~~ADD~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INCREASE~~ MODIFY THE
VETERAN–OWNED22 SMALL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE PARTICIPATION AFTER THE DATE
IF:23 OF CONTRACT EXECUTION ONLY

(I) STATE;24 IT IS IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE

(II) UNIT;25 IT IS APPROVED BY THE HEAD OF THE AND

(III) AMENDED.26 THE CONTRACT IS

[(c)] (D)27 The provisions of this subtitle do not apply to a unit’s procurement
28 procedures to the extent that any unit determines that those provisions are in conflict with
29 an applicable federal program.

14–602.1.30

PAGE 42
42 HOUSE BILL 500

(A) IN SECTION, “VETERAN–OWNED RESERVE”1 THIS SMALL BUSINESS
2 MEANS THOSE PROCUREMENTS THAT ARE LIMITED TO RESPONSES FROM
VETERAN–OWNED ENTERPRISE.3 BUSINESSES THAT QUALIFY AS A SMALL BUSINESS

(B) (1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,4 AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
DEPARTMENT5 THIS SECTION APPLIES TO ALL PROCUREMENTS BY THE OF
VETERANS MILITARY FAMILIES MILITARY DEPARTMENT6 AND AND THE OR ANY
DEPARTMENT VETERANS MILITARY7 UNIT ACTING ON BEHALF OF THE OF AND
FAMILIES MILITARY DEPARTMENT.8 OR THE

(2) THIS TO:9 SECTION DOES NOT APPLY

(I) SUBTITLE 1 TITLE;10 PROCUREMENTS MADE UNDER OF THIS
11 OR

(II)12 PROCUREMENTS INVOLVING EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL
DOLLARS,13 TO THE EXTENT THAT THE REQUIREMENTS IN THIS SECTION CONFLICT
PROVISIONS.14 WITH FEDERAL LAW OR OTHER GRANT

(C) NOTWITHSTANDING SUBTITLE 5 TITLE,15 OF THIS ANY PROCUREMENT BY
DEPARTMENT VETERANS MILITARY FAMILIES MILITARY16 THE OF AND OR THE
DEPARTMENT GOODS, SUPPLIES, SERVICES, MAINTENANCE, CONSTRUCTION,17 OF
SERVICES, SERVICES,18 CONSTRUCTION RELATED ARCHITECTURAL AND
19 ENGINEERING SERVICES SHALL BE ELIGIBLE FOR DESIGNATION FOR THE
VETERAN–OWNED RESERVE.20 SMALL BUSINESS

(D) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE SMALL, MINORITY, WOMEN21 OF AND
BUSINESS AFFAIRS SHALL:22

(1) CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER23 IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL,24 AND THE ESTABLISH STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR
VETERAN–OWNED25 PARTICIPATION IN THE SMALL BUSINESS RESERVE PROGRAM
5 YEARS;26 EVERY

(2) VETERAN–OWNED27 ESTABLISH GUIDELINES FOR SMALL BUSINESS
ADMINISTRATION;28 RESERVE PROGRAM AND

(3) DEPARTMENT VETERANS29 COLLECT DATA REGARDING THE OF
MILITARY FAMILIES’ MILITARY DEPARTMENT’S30 AND AND THE USE OF
VETERAN–OWNED VENDORS.31 SMALL BUSINESS RESERVE

SUBTITLE 8. INTERNSHIP REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM.32 AND

14–801.33

PAGE 43
HOUSE BILL 500 43

(A) IN1 THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.2

(B) “COVERED PROCUREMENT” THAT:3 MEANS A PROCUREMENT CONTRACT

(1) CHIEF4 MEETS THE CRITERIA ESTABLISHED BY THE
PROCUREMENT OFFICER, SECRETARY AND,5 IN CONSULTATION WITH THE FOR
TITLE 3.5 ARTICLE, SECRETARY6 CONTRACTS SUBJECT TO OF THIS THE OF
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, § 14–802 SUBTITLE;7 UNDER OF THIS AND

(2) § 17–2028 IS NOT A PUBLIC WORK CONTRACT SUBJECT TO OF THIS
ARTICLE.9

(C) “DEPARTMENT” MARYLAND DEPARTMENT LABOR.10 MEANS THE OF

(D) “ELIGIBLE PROGRAM”11 INTERNSHIP MEANS AN INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
12 THAT REQUIRES A CONTRACTOR OR OTHER ENTITY TO PROVIDE PAID INTERNSHIPS
SECRETARY.13 THAT MEET STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY THE

(E) “REGISTERED PROGRAM”14 APPRENTICESHIP MEANS AN
15 APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM THAT IS REGISTERED WITH AND APPROVED BY THE
DIVISION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT ADULT LEARNING.16 OF AND

(F) “SECRETARY” SECRETARY LABOR.17 MEANS THE OF

14–802.18

(A) THIS19 SUBTITLE APPLIES TO A COVERED PROCUREMENT MADE BY A
UNIT.20

(B) A21 CONTRACTOR AWARDED A COVERED PROCUREMENT WITH AN
$1,000,00022 ESTIMATED TOTAL DOLLAR VALUE OF OR MORE SHALL UTILIZE AN
PROGRAM.23 ELIGIBLE INTERNSHIP

(C) A24 CONTRACTOR AWARDED A COVERED PROCUREMENT SHALL UTILIZE A
PROGRAM.25 REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP

(D) THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER,26 IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
SECRETARY AND, TITLE 3.5 ARTICLE,27 FOR CONTRACTS SUBJECT TO OF THIS THE
SECRETARY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY:28 OF

(1)29 SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS ESTABLISHING THE DEFINITION OF
“COVERED PROCUREMENT”;30 AND

PAGE 44
44 HOUSE BILL 500

(2) ADOPT:1 MAY

(I)2 REGULATIONS TO IMPROVE THE RECRUITMENT OR SKILLS
VENDORS;3 OF EMPLOYEES OF OR

(II)4 OTHER REGULATIONS NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THIS
SUBTITLE, PROCESSES.5 INCLUDING WAIVER

14–803.6

(A) A7 CONTRACTOR THAT SUBMITS A BID OR PROPOSAL FOR A COVERED
OF:8 PROCUREMENT SHALL PROVIDE TO A UNIT WRITTEN VERIFICATION

(1)9 THE NUMBER OF APPRENTICES OR INTERNS THAT WILL BE
TERM,10 UTILIZED THROUGHOUT THE CONTRACT INCLUDING POTENTIAL RENEWAL
OPTIONS;11

(2)12 THE WORK TO BE PERFORMED BY APPRENTICES IN A REGISTERED
PROGRAM;13 APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM OR INTERNS IN AN ELIGIBLE INTERNSHIP
14 AND

(3) INTERNSHIP.15 THE DURATION OF THE APPRENTICESHIP OR THE

(B) THE (A)16 WRITTEN VERIFICATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF
17 THIS SECTION SHALL BE PROVIDED BEFORE THE CONTRACTOR MAY BE AWARDED A
PROCUREMENT.18 CONTRACT FOR A COVERED

14–804.19

(A) THE SECRETARY20 IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ENSURING COMPLIANCE WITH
SUBTITLE.21 THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(B) THE SECRETARY22 SHALL ESTABLISH CRITERIA TO ASSIST UNITS IN
SUBTITLE, INCLUDING:23 ENSURING CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE WITH THIS

(1) CONTRACTOR’S24 PENALTIES FOR A FAILURE TO USE APPRENTICES
PROPOSAL;25 OR INTERNS AS PROVIDED IN A BID OR AND

(2)26 PROCEDURES FOR REPORTING ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF THIS
SUBTITLE.27

14–805.28

PAGE 45
HOUSE BILL 500 45

(A) A1 CONTRACTOR THAT IS AWARDED A CONTRACT FOR A COVERED
2 PROCUREMENT UNDER THIS SUBTITLE WHO FAILS TO USE APPRENTICES FROM A
3 REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM OR INTERNS FROM AN ELIGIBLE
4 INTERNSHIP PROGRAM AS PROVIDED IN THE BID OR PROPOSAL SHALL BE LIABLE
§ 14–8045 FOR AN AMOUNT AS SPECIFIED BY THE CRITERIA ESTABLISHED UNDER OF
SUBTITLE.6 THIS

(B) A7 UNIT SHALL REPORT ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF THIS SUBTITLE TO THE
DEPARTMENT § 14–8048 AS SPECIFIED IN THE CRITERIA ESTABLISHED UNDER OF
SUBTITLE.9 THIS

(C) THE DEPARTMENT10 SHALL REPORT ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF THIS
OFFICE ATTORNEY GENERAL,11 SUBTITLE TO THE OF THE WHICH SHALL DETERMINE
12 WHETHER TO BRING A CIVIL ACTION AGAINST A PERSON OR BUSINESS FOR A
SUBTITLE.13 VIOLATION OF THIS

(D) PENALTIES14 SHALL BE RECOVERABLE IN CIVIL ACTIONS AND PAID TO
STATE APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING FUND § 17–60215 THE ESTABLISHED UNDER OF
ARTICLE, LAW.16 THIS UNLESS OTHERWISE REQUIRED BY FEDERAL

(E) THE SECRETARY17 MAY FILE SUIT TO ENFORCE THIS SUBTITLE IN ANY
JURISDICTION.18 COURT OF COMPETENT

(F) IN SECTION,19 AN ACTION FILED UNDER THIS THE COURT SHALL REQUIRE
(A)20 THE CONTRACTOR TO PAY THE AMOUNT REQUIRED BY SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, INTEREST, ATTORNEY’S FEES,21 INCLUDING REASONABLE AND COURT
COSTS.22

SUBTITLE 9. GOOD LABOR PRACTICES ~~PREFERENCE~~ EVALUATION FACTOR.23

14–901.24

(A) IN25 THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.26

(B) “COMMISSIONER” COMMISSIONER LABOR27 MEANS THE OF AND
INDUSTRY.28

~~(C)~~ ~~“GOOD~~ ~~BUSINESS”~~29 ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~A~~ ~~BUSINESS~~
~~§~~ ~~14–903~~30 ~~THAT~~ ~~MEETS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~QUALIFICATIONS~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~31

PAGE 46
46 HOUSE BILL 500

~~(D)~~ ~~“GOOD~~ ~~PREFERENCE”~~1 ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~A~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~
~~§~~ ~~14–904~~2 ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~APPLIED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~BUSINESSES~~
~~VALID,~~ ~~PRACTICES.~~3 ~~HOLDING~~ ~~A~~ ~~CURRENT~~ ~~CERTIFICATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THEIR~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~

(C) “GOOD FACTOR”4 LABOR PRACTICES EVALUATION MEANS A FACTOR FOR
5 GOOD LABOR PRACTICES THAT WILL BE USED TO EVALUATE TECHNICAL PROPOSALS
6 RECEIVED FOR PROCUREMENTS BEING CONDUCTED THROUGH THE COMPETITIVE
§ 13–104 ARTICLE.7 SEALED PROPOSALS PROCUREMENT METHOD UNDER OF THIS

~~(E)~~ (D) “PUBLIC BODY” § 17–2018 HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THIS
ARTICLE.9

~~(F)~~ (E) “PUBLIC CONTRACT” §10 WORK HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
17–201 ARTICLE.11 OF THIS

14–902.12

THIS TO:13 SUBTITLE APPLIES

(1) BODY;14 PUBLIC WORK CONTRACTS PROCURED BY A PUBLIC AND

(2) § 18–102 ARTICLE.15 A CONTRACT SUBJECT TO OF THIS

14–903.16

(A) TO17 ~~OBTAIN~~ ~~INITIAL~~ ~~CERTIFICATION~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ QUALIFY FOR APPLICATION OF
FACTOR,18 THE GOOD LABOR PRACTICES ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ EVALUATION A
THAT,19 BUSINESS MUST ATTEST BY AFFIDAVIT ON ANY CONTRACT SUBJECT TO THIS
WORK,20 SUBTITLE THAT IT IS AWARDED OR UNDER WHICH IT PERFORMS ANY THE
WILL:21 BUSINESS

(1) EMPLOY, W–2 EMPLOYEES,22 DIRECTLY AS ALL ~~PERSONS~~ WORKERS
BUSINESS,23 PERFORMING ~~WORK~~ TASKS ON BEHALF OF THE EXCEPT FOR A PERSON
TITLE 3, SUBTITLE 9 LABOR EMPLOYMENT ARTICLE,24 EXEMPT UNDER OF THE AND
CONTRACT;25 UNDER THE

(2)26 PAY ALL ~~PERSONS~~ WORKERS BY CHECK OR ELECTRONIC MEANS
EQUIVALENT;27 AS AVAILABLE AND NOT IN CASH OR CASH

(3)28 STRICTLY COMPLY WITH ALL LEGAL OBLIGATIONS AS AN
EMPLOYER, TITLE 3, TITLE29 INCLUDING ITS OBLIGATIONS AS AN EMPLOYER UNDER
5, TITLE 8, TITLE 9 LABOR EMPLOYMENT ARTICLE AND,30 OR OF THE AND AS
APPLICABLE, TITLE 17 TITLE 18 ARTICLE;31 UNDER OR OF THIS

PAGE 47
HOUSE BILL 500 47

(4)1 PROVIDE ADVANCE WRITTEN NOTIFICATION TO THE
MARYLAND DEPARTMENT LABOR,2 PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY AND TO THE OF
DIVISION LABOR INDUSTRY,3 OF AND IN A FORM TO BE DETERMINED BY THE
COMMISSIONER,4 OF ANY SUBCONTRACTORS PERFORMING WORK UNDER THE
CONTRACT;5

(5) (1),6 PROVIDE WRITTEN NOTICE OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF ITEMS
(2), (3)7 AND OF THIS SUBSECTION TO ANY SUBCONTRACTORS PERFORMING WORK
CONTRACT;8 UNDER THE

(6)9 OBTAIN WRITTEN ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF THE NOTICE PROVIDED
(5) SUBCONTRACTOR’S10 IN ITEM OF THIS SUBSECTION AND OF THE AGREEMENT TO
REQUIREMENTS, COMMISSIONER,11 ADHERE TO THOSE TO BE FILED WITH THE IN A
COMMISSIONER;12 FORM AND MANNER DETERMINED BY THE

(7)13 SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE A COMPREHENSIVE CONSULTATION
MARYLAND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY HEALTH PROGRAM14 VISIT BY THE AND WITHIN
COMMISSIONER,15 A REASONABLE TIME DETERMINED BY THE FOLLOWING THE START
CONTRACT;16 OF WORK UNDER THE

(8)17 BE JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY LIABLE AS AN EMPLOYER FOR ANY
~~TITLE~~ ~~3,~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~5,~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~8,~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~9~~18 VIOLATION OF A SUBCONTRACTOR UNDER ~~OR~~ ~~OF~~
~~LABOR~~ ~~EMPLOYMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE~~ TITLE 17 TITLE 1819 ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OR~~ OR OF THIS ARTICLE
SUBCONTRACTOR’S20 IN CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK UNDER THE
CONTRACT;21

(9) COMMISSIONER,22 PROMPTLY DISCLOSE TO THE IN A FORM AND
COMMISSIONER, SUITS, CHARGES,23 MANNER TO BE PRESCRIBED BY THE ANY
DEMANDS, ORDERS, FINDINGS,24 OR ADJUDICATIONS MADE AGAINST IT IN
(1), (2), (3)25 CONNECTION WITH VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO ITEM OR OF THIS
(8)26 SUBSECTION OR AGAINST ANY OF ITS SUBCONTRACTORS AS PROVIDED IN ITEM
SUBSECTION;27 OF THIS AND

(10) § 18–102 ARTICLE,28 ON CONTRACTS SUBJECT TO OF THIS PROVIDE
29 PROOF THAT THE BUSINESS HAS SECURED A PAYMENT BOND SUFFICIENT TO
30 ENSURE PAYMENT OF WAGES TO ALL EMPLOYEES PERFORMING WORK UNDER THE
CONTRACT.31

~~(B)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~A~~32 ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~SUBMITS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSIONER,~~ ~~COMMISSIONER,~~33 ~~ON~~ ~~A~~ ~~FORM~~ ~~DEVELOPED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEMONSTRATING~~
~~(A)~~ ~~SECTION,~~34 ~~SATISFACTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CRITERIA~~ ~~LISTED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~MAY~~
~~CERTIFICATION.~~35 ~~BE~~ ~~ISSUED~~ ~~A~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~

PAGE 48
48 HOUSE BILL 500

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~(1)~~1 ~~CERTIFICATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~
~~12~~ ~~ISSUANCE,~~2 ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~VALID~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~MONTHS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~THAT~~
~~BUSINESS’S~~3 ~~THE~~ ~~ELIGIBILITY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~CERTIFICATION~~ ~~IS~~ ~~MAINTAINED~~ ~~CONTINUOUSLY~~
~~PERIOD.~~4 ~~DURING~~ ~~THAT~~

(B) A5 PROCUREMENT OFFICER WHO RECEIVES A PROPOSAL FOR A
6 COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSAL PROCUREMENT THAT IS SUBMITTED WITH THE
(A)7 AFFIDAVIT DESCRIBED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION SHALL EVALUATE
FACTOR.8 THE PROPOSAL WITH THE GOOD LABOR PRACTICES EVALUATION

~~(3)~~ (C) THE COMMISSIONER SHALL:9

~~(I)~~ ~~CURRENT,~~10 ~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~A~~ ~~LIST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~BUSINESSES~~ ~~WITH~~
~~CERTIFICATION;~~11 ~~VALID~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~

(1) 1212 MAINTAIN A LIST FOR THE PRECEDING MONTHS OF ALL
13 BUSINESSES THAT HAVE SUBMITTED THE AFFIDAVIT DESCRIBED UNDER
(A) SECTION,14 SUBSECTION OF THIS CONFIRMING ADHERENCE TO GOOD LABOR
PRACTICES;15

~~(II)~~ (2) ~~(I)~~16 PROVIDE THE LIST IN ITEM ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~
(1) ~~3~~17 OF THIS SUBSECTION TO ALL PROCUREMENT OFFICERS AT LEAST ONCE EVERY
6 REQUEST;18 MONTHS AND ON AND

~~(III)~~ (3) ~~(I)~~19 PUBLISH THE LIST IN ITEM ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~
(1) MARYLAND DEPARTMENT LABOR’S20 OF THIS SUBSECTION ON THE OF PUBLIC
WEBSITE.21

~~(C)~~ ~~A~~22 ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~SEEKING~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RENEW~~ ~~ITS~~ ~~CERTIFICATION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AN~~
~~12–MONTH~~ ~~SHALL:~~23 ~~ADDITIONAL~~ ~~PERIOD~~

~~(1)~~24 ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~UPDATED~~ ~~ATTESTATION~~ ~~AT~~ ~~A~~ ~~TIME~~ ~~AND~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~FORM~~
~~COMMISSIONER;~~25 ~~DEVELOPED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~26 ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~ADDITIONAL~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~REQUESTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSIONER.~~27

~~(D)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~COMMISSIONER~~28 ~~THE~~ ~~DETERMINES~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~A~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~
~~ELIGIBLE,~~ ~~ELIGIBLE,~~ ~~CERTIFICATION,~~ ~~COMMISSIONER~~29 ~~OR~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NO~~ ~~LONGER~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~SHALL:~~30

~~(1)~~ ~~CERTIFICATION;~~31 ~~REVOKE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

PAGE 49
HOUSE BILL 500 49

~~(2)~~1 ~~REMOVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LIST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~
~~(B)~~2 ~~PRACTICES~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~BUSINESSES~~ ~~MAINTAINED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~3

(D) IF COMMISSIONER4 THE DETERMINES THAT A BUSINESS IS NOT
PRACTICES, (A)5 FOLLOWING GOOD LABOR AS DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION:6

(1) COMMISSIONER7 THE SHALL REMOVE THE BUSINESS FROM THE
(C)(1) SECTION;8 LIST MAINTAINED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS AND

(2)9 THE BUSINESS MAY NOT BE ELIGIBLE FOR THE GOOD LABOR
1210 PRACTICES EVALUATION FACTOR FOR MONTHS FOLLOWING THE
SUBSECTION.11 DETERMINATION MADE UNDER THIS

(E) THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER,12 IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
COMMISSIONER,13 MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE PROVISIONS OF
SUBTITLE.14 THIS

14–904.15

~~(A)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SECTION,~~ ~~“PERCENTAGE~~ ~~PREFERENCE”~~16 ~~THIS~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~
17 ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOWEST~~ ~~RESPONSIVE~~ ~~BID~~ ~~SUBMITTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESPONSIBLE~~
18 ~~BIDDER~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~A~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~BY~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~A~~
~~MAY:~~19 ~~RESPONSIVE~~ ~~BID~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~BUSINESS~~

~~(1)~~ ~~BID;~~20 ~~EXCEED~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOWEST~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~21 ~~BE~~ ~~AWARDED~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~22

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER,~~23 ~~IN~~ ~~CONSULTATION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~
~~SECRETARY,~~ ~~5%~~24 ~~SHALL~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~FOR~~
~~BUSINESS.~~25 ~~A~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~26 ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~
27 ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ADDITION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~IS~~
~~TITLE.~~28 ~~QUALIFIED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

(A) A29 GOOD LABOR PRACTICES EVALUATION FACTOR FOR GOOD LABOR
§ 14–903(A)30 PRACTICES DESCRIBED IN OF THIS SUBTITLE SHALL BE INCLUDED IN
31 THE TECHNICAL EVALUATION FACTORS FOR COMPETITIVE SEALED PROPOSALS FOR
§ 14–90232 A PROPOSAL SUBMITTED FOR A CONTRACT DESCRIBED IN OF THIS
SUBTITLE.33

PAGE 50
50 HOUSE BILL 500

(B) THE BE:1 GOOD LABOR PRACTICES EVALUATION FACTOR SHALL

(1) PROPOSALS, 10%2 IF A POINT SYSTEM IS USED FOR EVALUATION OF
POINTS;3 OF THE TOTAL ALLOCABLE TECHNICAL OR

(2) PROPOSALS,4 IF A POINT SYSTEM IS NOT USED FOR EVALUATION OF
IMPORTANCE.5 RANKED IN ITS RELATIVE ORDER OF

14–905.6

(A) A §7 PERSON MAY NOT ENGAGE IN CONDUCT PROHIBITED UNDER
14–605(A) § 14–6068 OR OF THIS TITLE IN CONNECTION WITH ANY ACT UNDERTAKEN
~~OBTAIN,~~ ~~RENEW,~~ ~~MAINTAIN,~~9 ~~TO~~ ~~OR~~ ~~EXERCISE~~ ~~A~~ ~~GOOD~~ ~~LABOR~~ ~~PRACTICES~~
~~CERTIFICATION.~~ FACTOR.10 TO QUALIFY FOR A GOOD LABOR PRACTICES EVALUATION

(B) THE §§ 14–605(B) (C) 14–60611 PENALTIES ESTABLISHED IN AND AND OF
SUBTITLE.12 THIS TITLE APPLY TO VIOLATIONS OF THIS

14–906.13

IN § 14–90514 ADDITION TO THE PENALTIES ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS
SUBTITLE,15 A PERSON THAT WILLFULLY MISREPRESENTS OR WILLFULLY OMITS ANY
16 MATERIAL MATTER IN CONNECTION WITH AN APPLICATION OR REQUIRED
17 DISCLOSURE FOR PURPOSES OF OBTAINING OR RETAINING A CONTRACT OR
TO:18 SUBCONTRACT UNDER THIS SUBTITLE MAY BE SUBJECT

(1) TITLE 16 ARTICLE;19 SUSPENSION OR DEBARMENT UNDER OF THIS
20 OR

(2) MARYLAND FALSE CLAIMS ACT.21 CIVIL PENALTIES UNDER THE

22 15–103.

(A)23 It is the policy of the State to make a payment under a procurement contract
[within days]:24 30

3025 (1) after the day on which the payment becomes dueWITHIN DAYS
[under26 the procurement contract; or

which] [an]27 (2) if later, after the day on the unit receivesAND A PROPER
invoice;28 OR

PAGE 51
HOUSE BILL 500 51

(2) CONTRACT, 151 FOR A SMALL BUSINESS RESERVE WITHIN DAYS
2 AFTER THE DAY ON WHICH THE PAYMENT BECOMES DUE AND THE UNIT RECEIVES A
3 INVOICE.PROPER

(B) INTEREST § 15–1044 SHALL ACCRUE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
SUBTITLE.5

6 15–111.

7 (a) Within 60 days after the end of each fiscal year, each primary procurement
8 unit shall submit to the Chief Procurement Officer a report on each procurement contract
9 that was awarded during the preceding fiscal year, whether the procurement was
10 conducted by the primary procurement unit or subject to review by the primary
11 procurement unit, and:

12 (1) was exempt from the notice requirements of § 13–103(c) of this article
13 because the procurement officer reasonably expected that the procurement contract would
14 be performed entirely outside this State and the District of Columbia;

[$100,000]15 (2) cost more than THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT
§ 13–10916 and was awarded for the procurement ofSPECIFIED IN OF THIS ARTICLE
17 services, construction related services, architectural services, or engineering services; or

18 (3) was awarded on the basis of:

19 (i) § 13–107 of this article (“Sole source procurement”);

20 (ii) § 13–108(a) of this article (“Emergency procurement”); or

21 (iii) § 13–108(c) of this article (“Expedited procurement”).

22 15–112.

[Before the] THE23 (e) January 1, 2017, Board shall propose regulationsUPDATED
24 that provide for an expedited change order process for change orders valuedAS NEEDED
[$50,000] § 13–10925 at more than THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN
26 ARTICLE.OF THIS

~~15–112.1.~~27

~~(A)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SECTION,~~ ~~“CONTRACT~~ ~~MODIFICATION”~~28 ~~THIS~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~A~~ ~~WRITTEN~~
~~THAT:~~29 ~~ALTERATION~~

PAGE 52
52 HOUSE BILL 500

~~(1)~~ ~~SPECIFICATIONS,~~ ~~POINT,~~ ~~DELIVERY,~~1 ~~AFFECTS~~ ~~DELIVERY~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~OF~~
~~PERFORMANCE,~~ ~~PRICE,~~ ~~QUANTITY,~~2 ~~PERIOD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~PROVISIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~
~~CONTRACT;~~3 ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~4 ~~IS~~ ~~ACCOMPLISHED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~MUTUAL~~ ~~ACTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PARTIES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~
~~CONTRACT.~~5 ~~EXISTING~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~CONTRACTS.~~6 ~~SECTION~~ ~~APPLIES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~

~~(C)~~ ~~A~~7 ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~APPROVE~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~MODIFICATIONS~~
~~CONDITIONS:~~8 ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~

~~(1)~~9 ~~THE~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~MODIFICATION~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~MATERIALLY~~ ~~CHANGE~~
~~WORK;~~10 ~~THE~~ ~~SCOPE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~11 ~~THE~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~MODIFICATION~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~INCREASE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TOTAL~~
12 ~~VALUE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~EXCEEDS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SMALL~~
~~§~~ ~~13–109~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~13 ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~SPECIFIED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(D)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNIT,~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~14 ~~PRIMARY~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~THE~~
~~OFFICER,~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER’S~~15 ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DESIGNEE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~APPROVE~~ ~~A~~
~~$1,000,000~~ ~~$200,000~~16 ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~MODIFICATION~~ ~~UP~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~DOES~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~MATERIALLY~~
~~WORK.~~17 ~~CHANGE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SCOPE~~ ~~OF~~

~~(E)~~ ~~A~~18 ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~DOCUMENT~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONTRACT~~
~~(C)~~ ~~(D)~~ ~~SECTION.~~19 ~~MODIFICATION~~ ~~MADE~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(F)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~OFFICER~~20 ~~SHALL~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~ ~~GUIDELINES~~
~~PROCESS.~~21 ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~MODIFICATION~~

22 17–103.

23 (a) (1) Before a public body awards a construction contract exceeding
[$100,000] § 13–10924 THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS
25 CONSTRUCTION, the contractor shall provide payment security andARTICLE FOR
26 performance security that meet the requirements of § 17–104 of this subtitle.

27 (2) The security shall be:

28 (i) for performance security, in an amount that the public body
29 considers adequate for its protection; and

30 (ii) for payment security, at least 50% of the total amount payable
31 under the contract.

PAGE 53
HOUSE BILL 500 53

1 (b) A public body, other than the State or a unit of the State government, may
2 require payment security or performance security for a construction contract if:

[$50,000] $100,0003 (1) the contract exceeds but does not exceed
[$100,000] § 13–1094 THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS
5 ARTICLE; and

6 (2) the amount of the security does not exceed 50% of the contract amount.

7 17–602.

8 (a) There is a State Apprenticeship Training Fund in the Department.

9 (b) The Fund consists of:

10 (1) payments made by contractors or subcontractors in accordance with
[and]11 this subtitle and Subtitle 6A of this title;

12 (2) penalties collected as a result of violations of this subtitle and Subtitle
title;13 6A of this AND

(3) TITLE14 PENALTIES COLLECTED AS A RESULT OF VIOLATIONS OF
14, SUBTITLE 8 ARTICLE.15 OF THIS

16 (e) The Secretary shall use money in the fund to:

17 (1) promote preapprenticeship programs and other workforce development
18 programs in the State’s public secondary schools and community colleges that assist
19 students in preparing for and entering apprenticeship training programs; and

20 (2) pay any costs associated with carrying out the provisions of this subtitle
TITLE 14, SUBTITLE 821 and Subtitle 6A of this title ARTICLE.OR OF THIS

22 17–604.

[valued] [$100,000 more]23 (a) A subcontractor that performs work at or A VALUE
§ 13–10924 EXCEEDING THE SMALL PROCUREMENT AMOUNT SPECIFIED IN OF THIS
25 for a covered project shall provide to a unit written verification that:ARTICLE

26 (1) the subcontractor participates in an apprenticeship training program
27 for each covered craft in which it will employ persons for the covered project;

28 (2) the subcontractor will make payments to the Fund; or

PAGE 54
54 HOUSE BILL 500

1 (3) the subcontractor will make payments in amounts determined under §
2 17–605 of this subtitle to a registered apprenticeship program or to an organization that
3 has registered apprenticeship programs for the purpose of supporting these programs.

4 19–114.

[reads5 Every contract and subcontract shall contain a nondiscrimination clause that
follows]6 as FOLLOWING:IS SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR TO THE

7 “As a condition of entering into this agreement, the company represents and warrants that
8 it will comply with the State’s Commercial Nondiscrimination Policy, as described under
9 Title 19 of the State Finance and Procurement Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland.
10 As part of such compliance, the company may not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
11 religion, ancestry or national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender
12 identity, or on the basis of disability or other unlawful forms of discrimination in the
13 solicitation, selection, hiring, or commercial treatment of subcontractors, vendors,
14 suppliers, or commercial customers, nor shall the company retaliate against any person for
15 reporting instances of such discrimination. The company shall provide equal opportunity
16 for subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers to participate in all of its public sector and
17 private sector subcontracting and supply opportunities, provided that nothing contained in
18 this clause shall prohibit or limit otherwise lawful efforts to remedy the effects of
19 marketplace discrimination that have occurred or are occurring in the marketplace. The
20 company understands and agrees that a material violation of this clause shall be considered
21 a material breach of this agreement and may result in termination of this agreement,
22 disqualification of the company from participating in State contracts, or other sanctions.
23 This clause is not enforceable by or for the benefit of, and creates no obligation to, any third
24 party.”.

25 19–116.

26 Every contract that the State enters into shall include LANGUAGE SUBSTANTIALLY
[language]:27 the followingSIMILAR TO

28 “As a condition of entering into this agreement, upon the request of the Commission on
29 Civil Rights, and only after the filing of a complaint against the company under Title 19 of
30 the State Finance and Procurement Article, as amended from time to time, the company
31 agrees to: provide to the State within 60 days after the request a truthful and complete list
32 of the names of all subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers that the company has used in the
33 past 4 years on any of its contracts that were undertaken within the State of Maryland,
34 including the total dollar amount paid by the contractor on each subcontract or supply
35 contract. The company further agrees to cooperate in any investigation conducted by the
36 State pursuant to the State’s Commercial Nondiscrimination Policy as set forth under Title
37 19 of the State Finance and Procurement Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland, to
38 provide any documents relevant to any investigation that is requested by the State. The
39 company understands and agrees that violation of this clause shall be considered a material

PAGE 55
HOUSE BILL 500 55

1 breach of this agreement and may result in contract termination, disqualification by the
2 State from participating in State contracts, and other sanctions.”.

3 ~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Government~~

4 ~~4–113.~~

5 ~~(a)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~In~~ ~~this~~ ~~section~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~words~~ ~~have~~ ~~the~~ ~~meanings~~ ~~indicated.~~

6 ~~(2)~~ ~~“Departments”~~ ~~means:~~

7 ~~(i)~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Comptroller;~~

8 ~~(ii)~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Treasurer;~~

9 ~~(iii)~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Budget~~ ~~and~~ ~~Management;~~

10 ~~(iv)~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Information~~ ~~Technology;~~ ~~and~~

11 ~~(v)~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~General~~ ~~Services.~~

12 ~~(3)~~ ~~“Financial~~ ~~management~~ ~~infrastructure”~~ ~~means~~ ~~the~~ ~~information~~
13 ~~technology~~ ~~infrastructure~~ ~~that~~ ~~is~~ ~~used~~ ~~to~~ ~~maintain~~ ~~the~~ ~~general~~ ~~ledger~~ ~~and~~ ~~accountancy~~ ~~for~~
14 ~~the~~ ~~State,~~ ~~including~~ ~~subledger~~ ~~functions~~ ~~that~~ ~~enable~~ ~~the~~ ~~management~~ ~~of~~ ~~all~~ ~~payments~~ ~~and~~
15 ~~fund~~ ~~transfers~~ ~~throughout~~ ~~the~~ ~~State.~~

16 ~~(4)~~ ~~“21st~~ ~~Century~~ ~~Financial~~ ~~Systems~~ ~~Enterprise”~~ ~~means~~ ~~a~~ ~~modern~~
17 ~~cloud–based~~ ~~information~~ ~~technology~~ ~~infrastructure.~~

18 ~~(b)~~ ~~In~~ ~~consultation~~ ~~with~~ ~~a~~ ~~designated~~ ~~representative~~ ~~from~~ ~~the~~ ~~Modernize~~
19 ~~Maryland~~ ~~Oversight~~ ~~Commission,~~ ~~the~~ ~~departments~~ ~~shall:~~

~~needed,~~20 ~~(5)~~ ~~establish~~ ~~working~~ ~~groups~~ ~~as~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~A~~ ~~WORKING~~ ~~GROUP~~
21 ~~TO~~ ~~STUDY~~ ~~WHETHER~~ ~~IMMEDIATE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PROMPT~~ ~~PAYMENT~~ ~~FEATURES~~ ~~CAN~~ ~~BE~~ ~~ADDED~~
~~21ST~~ ~~CENTURY~~ ~~FINANCIAL~~ ~~SYSTEMS~~ ~~ENTERPRISE~~22 ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~DETERMINE~~
~~STATE~~23 ~~WHETHER~~ ~~BOTH~~ ~~PRIME~~ ~~CONTACTORS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~SUBCONTRACTORS~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~
~~STATE~~24 ~~TIME;~~ ~~and~~~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~CAN~~ ~~BE~~ ~~PAID~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~

25 Article – State Personnel and Pensions

26 13–401.

27 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

PAGE 56
56 HOUSE BILL 500

(1) [“Services”] EXCEPT (2)1 (c) AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, “SERVICES”2 has the meaning stated in § 11–101 of the State Finance and
3 Procurement Article.

(2) “SERVICES”4 DOES NOT INCLUDE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
CYBERSECURITY.5 SERVICES AND

6 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before December 1,
7 2025, the Procurement Advisor to the Board of Public Works shall conduct a study of the
8 economic impacts of instituting an in–State preference for Maryland vendors for all State
9 procurements and submit a report of its findings and recommendations to the Board of
10 Public Works and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, the
11 General Assembly.

12 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the publisher of the
13 Annotated Code of Maryland, in consultation with and subject to the approval of the
14 Department of Legislative Services, shall correct, with no further action required by the
15 General Assembly, cross–references and terminology rendered incorrect by Section 1 of this
16 Act. The publisher shall adequately describe any correction that is made in an editor’s note
17 following the section affected.

18 SECTION ~~3.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
19 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.