PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 575

K3, C8 5lr1645

By: Chair, Economic Matters Committee (By Request – Office of the Attorney
General)
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 20, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Maryland Protecting Opportunities and Regional Trade (PORT) Act – Reports
3 of Attorney General – Frequency

4 FOR the purpose of altering the frequency of the reports required to be submitted by the
5 Attorney General to the General Assembly regarding the status of the recovery of
6 economic damages arising from the closure of the Helen Delich Bentley Port of
7 Baltimore and the collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge; and generally relating
8 to reports of the Attorney General under the Maryland Protecting Opportunities and
9 Regional Trade Act.

10 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
11 Chapter 2 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2024
12 Section 2(g)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
14 Chapter 3 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2024
15 Section 2(g)

16 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
17 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

18 Chapter 2 of the Acts of 2024

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0575*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 575

1 (g) The Attorney General shall:

2 (1) pursue all available options, including filing actions against the
3 applicable parties, to recover for the State all possible economic damages arising from the
4 closure of the Port and the collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge; and

[each month] 65 (2) beginning July 1, 2024, and thereafterEVERY MONTHS
6 until all available options pursued under item (1) of this subsection are exhausted or
7 resolved, report to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
8 Government Article, on the status of pursuing and recovering the economic damages.

9 Chapter 3 of the Acts of 2024

10 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

11 (g) The Attorney General shall:

12 (1) pursue all available options, including filing actions against the
13 applicable parties, to recover for the State all possible economic damages arising from the
14 closure of the Port and the collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge; and

[each month] 615 (2) beginning July 1, 2024, and thereafterEVERY MONTHS
16 until all available options pursued under item (1) of this subsection are exhausted or
17 resolved, report to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
18 Government Article, on the status of pursuing and recovering the economic damages.

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
20 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.