PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 562

G1 5lr2853
CF SB 352

By: ~~Delegates~~ ~~R.~~ ~~Long,~~ ~~Szeliga,~~ ~~Grammer,~~ ~~Mangione,~~ ~~Metzgar,~~ ~~and~~ ~~Nawrocki~~
Baltimore County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 5, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Baltimore County – ~~Republican~~ Political Party Central Committee – Elections

3 FOR the purpose of altering the number of members elected from each councilmanic district
4 of Baltimore County to the Baltimore County Republican Party Central Committee;
5 altering the number of members elected from each legislative district of Baltimore
6 County to the Baltimore County Democratic Party Central Committee; and generally
7 relating to ~~the~~ ~~Baltimore~~ ~~County~~ ~~Republican~~ ~~Party~~ ~~Central~~ ~~Committee~~ political
8 party central committees in Baltimore County.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Election Law
11 Section 4–203(c)(1) and (2)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Election Law

17 4–203.

18 (c) (1) In Baltimore County, the Republican Party Central Committee shall
[four]19 consist of members elected from each councilmanic district in the county.THREE

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0562*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 562

1 (2) For the Baltimore County Democratic Party Central Committee:

[20] 10 [five]2 (i) members, from each district, shall be electedTWO
[6, 11] 11A, 42A, 42B, 43B, 44A,3 from legislative districts 8, 10, and each districtAND
[within]4 being located wholly Baltimore County;IN

[four] 12 members, DISTRICT,5 (ii) shall beFOUR FROM EACH
[district is] 7A, 11B, 44B,6 elected from legislative 44B that DISTRICTS AND EACH
7 located wholly in Baltimore County;DISTRICT BEING AND

[four] 18 members, DISTRICT,8 (iii) shall be electedSIX FROM EACH
[that of] [district is] 6, 8, 10,9 from part legislative 7 that DISTRICTS AND EACH DISTRICT
County[;10 located in BaltimoreBEING WHOLLY

11 (iv) four members shall be elected from that part of legislative
12 district 12 that is located in Baltimore County; and

13 (v) five members, of which two members shall be from delegate
14 district 42A and three members shall be from delegate district 42B, shall be elected from
County].15 legislative district 42 that is located wholly in Baltimore

16 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
17 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.