PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 618

C7 5lr2957
HB 566/23 – W&M

By: Delegate Patterson
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 4, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 State Lottery – Internet Sales of Subscription Plans – Authorization

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing the State Lottery and Gaming Control Agency to allow the
4 establishment of a system or program that allows ~~for~~ ~~the~~ an individual to purchase
5 ~~of~~ a State lottery subscription plan in a certain manner; requiring the Agency to
6 report to certain committees of the General Assembly regarding State lottery
7 subscription sales on or before a certain date; and generally relating to the sale of
8 State lottery subscription plans.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – State Government
11 Section 9–101 and 9–111(e)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – State Government

17 9–101.

18 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

19 (b) “Agency” means the State Lottery and Gaming Control Agency.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0618*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 618

1 (c) “Commission” means the State Lottery and Gaming Control Commission.

2 (d) “Director” means the Director of the Agency.

3 (e) “Governmental unit” means:

4 (1) an instrumentality of the State;

5 (2) a county or municipal corporation of the State; or

6 (3) an instrumentality of a county or municipal corporation of the State.

“JACKPOT GAME”7 (f) MEANS A LOTTERY GAME FOR WHICH THE TOP PRIZE
VARIES:8 AMOUNT

(1) SALES;9 BASED ON AND

(2) DRAWING.10 IF THE PRIZE WAS WON IN THE PRECEDING

(G)11 “License” means a license issued by the Director to act as a licensed agent.

[(g)] (H)12 “Licensed agent” means a person or governmental unit licensed by the
13 Director to act as a State lottery sales agent.

(I) “MULTIJURISDICTIONAL GAME”14 MEANS A LOTTERY GAME OFFERED BY
AGENCY AND:15 THE

(1) STATE16 ANY OTHER POLITICAL ENTITY OUTSIDE THE OR OUTSIDE
UNITED STATES;17 THE OR

(2) NATION.18 ANY PRIVATE LICENSEE OF A STATE OR FOREIGN

[(h)] (J)19 (1) “State lottery” means the lottery established and operated under
20 this subtitle.

21 (2) “State lottery” includes a raffle conducted by the Agency.

(K) “SUBSCRIPTION”22 MEANS A METHOD OF PLAYING A
23 MULTIJURISDICTIONAL OR JACKPOT LOTTERY GAME BY WHICH AN INDIVIDUAL
AGENCY:24 SUBMITS TO THE

(1)25 AN APPLICATION TO PLAY A GAME USING THE SAME GAME DATA
DRAWINGS;26 FOR A SPECIFIED NUMBER OF CONSECUTIVE AND

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 618 3

(2) DRAWINGS.1 PAYMENT FOR THE

2 9–111.

(1) [The] EXCEPT ~~(2)~~ (2)3 (e) AS PROVIDED IN ~~PARAGRAPH~~ PARAGRAPHS
(3) SUBSECTION,4 Agency may not allow the establishment of anyAND OF THIS THE
5 system or program that allows a person to purchase a State lottery ticket through an
6 electronic device that connects to the Internet, such as a personal computer or mobile
7 device.

(2) THE AGENCY8 MAY ALLOW THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SYSTEM OR
~~STATE~~9 PROGRAM THAT ALLOWS ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PURCHASE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~LOTTERY~~ ~~SUBSCRIPTION~~
10 ~~PLAN~~ AN INDIVIDUAL TO PURCHASE A SUBSCRIPTION THROUGH AN ELECTRONIC
INTERNET,11 DEVICE THAT CONNECTS TO THE SUCH AS A PERSONAL COMPUTER OR
DEVICE.12 MOBILE

(3) (I) THE AGENCY13 MAY ALLOW A LICENSED AGENT TO SELL A
14 VOUCHER THAT AN INDIVIDUAL MAY USE TO FUND THE PURCHASE OF A
SUBSCRIPTION.15

(II) THE AGENCY16 SHALL PAY A LICENSED AGENT THAT SELLS A
(I)17 VOUCHER DESCRIBED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH THE
§ 9–117 SUBTITLE.18 COMMISSION RATE STATED IN OF THIS

(III) THE AGENCY19 SHALL PAY A LICENSED AGENT THE
§ 9–11720 COMMISSION RATE STATED IN OF THIS SUBTITLE FOR THE RENEWAL OF A
21 SUBSCRIPTION THAT WAS ORIGINALLY FUNDED BY A VOUCHER SOLD BY THE
SUBSCRIPTION’S22 LICENSED AGENT AND IS RENEWED BEFORE THE EXPIRATION FOR
24 RENEWAL.23 A PERIOD OF MONTHS FROM THE DATE OF THE FIRST

24 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before December 1,
25 2026, the State Lottery and Gaming Control Agency shall report to the Senate Budget and
26 Taxation Committee, the House Appropriations Committee, and the House Ways and
27 Means Committee, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, on State
28 lottery subscription sales, including:

29 (1) the number and amount of subscriptions sold directly by the Agency;

30 (2) the number and amount of vouchers sold by licensed agents; and

31 (3) the number of subscription renewals processed directly by the Agency
32 that were originally funded by vouchers.

33 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
34 July 1, 2025.

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 618

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.