PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 699

P3 (5lr2032)
ENROLLED BILL
— Health and Government Operations/Education, Energy, and the Environment —
Introduced by Delegates Allen, Bhandari, Boyce, Ebersole, Fair, Forbes, Guyton,
D. Jones, Kaiser, R. Lewis, Lopez, Martinez, McCaskill, Rogers, Stein,
Vogel, ~~and~~ ~~White~~ ~~Holland~~ White Holland, Alston, Bagnall, Chisholm,
Cullison, Guzzone, Hill, Hutchinson, S. Johnson, Kerr, Kipke, M. Morgan,
Pena–Melnyk, Reilly, Rosenberg, Ross, Szeliga, Taveras, Woods, and
Woorman

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 General Provisions – Veterans Benefits – Honorable Discharge

3 FOR the purpose of defining “honorable discharge” with respect to any State program of
4 benefits, rights, or privileges applicable to a veteran to include certain discharges;
5 and generally relating to veteran discharges.

6 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
7 Article – General Provisions
8 Section 1–109.1
9 Annotated Code of Maryland

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0699*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 699

1 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

2 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
3 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

4 Article – General Provisions

5 1–109.1.

6 (a) With respect to any State program of benefits, rights, or privileges applicable
7 to a veteran under this Code, “honorable discharge” includes discharge that is less than
8 honorable:

9 (1) solely due to the sexual orientation or gender identity of the individual
[or]10 being discharged;

11 (2) based on a statement or consensual act of the individual being
12 discharged related to the individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity, if the statement
discharge;13 or consensual act was prohibited by the military or naval service at the time of
14 OR

~~(3)~~ ~~TO:~~15 ~~BASED~~ ~~ON~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INCIDENT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INCIDENTS~~ ~~RELATING~~

~~(I)~~ ~~POST–TRAUMATIC~~16 ~~A~~ ~~DIAGNOSIS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~STRESS~~ ~~DISORDER~~ ~~OR~~
17 ~~TRAUMATIC~~ ~~BRAIN~~ ~~INJURY~~ ~~MADE~~ ~~BY~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~LICENSED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~HEALTH~~
~~U.S.~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~VETERANS~~ ~~AFFAIRS~~ ~~FACILITY;~~18 ~~CARE~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~AT~~ ~~A~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~TRAUMA,~~ ~~38~~19 ~~AN~~ ~~EXPERIENCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~SEXUAL~~ ~~AS~~ ~~DESCRIBED~~ ~~IN~~
~~U.S.C.~~ ~~§~~ ~~1720,~~20 ~~DISCLOSED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~LICENSED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~HEALTH~~ ~~CARE~~
~~U.S.~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~VETERANS~~ ~~AFFAIRS~~ ~~FACILITY.~~21 ~~SERVICES~~ ~~AT~~ ~~A~~ ~~OF~~

(3) DEPARTMENT VETERANS MILITARY FAMILIES22 IF THE OF AND
23 DETERMINES ~~A~~ ~~DISCHARGE~~ ~~SHOULD~~ ~~BE~~ ~~UPGRADED~~ AN INDIVIDUAL IS ELIGIBLE FOR
STATE 38 C.F.R. § 3.12.24 BENEFITS BASED ON THE CRITERIA ESTABLISHED IN

25 (b) A veteran shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans and Military Families
26 documentation that provides the basis for the veteran’s discharge.

27 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
28 October 1, 2025.