PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 646

E5 5lr2772
CF SB 811

By: Delegates Taylor, Addison, Amprey, Conaway, Crutchfield, Holmes,
McCaskill, Phillips, Ruff, Toles, Wells, White Holland, Wilkins, Williams,
and Woods
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Task Force on the Creation of a Division of Returning Citizens and Expanded
3 Reentry Services – Extension of Report Deadline and Task Force

4 FOR the purpose of extending the deadline for the reporting requirement for the Task Force
5 on the Creation of a Division of Returning Citizens and Expanded Reentry Services;
6 extending the termination date for the Task Force; and generally relating to the Task
7 Force on the Creation of a Division of Returning Citizens and Expanded Reentry
8 Services.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Chapter 936 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2024
11 Section 1(a)

12 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
13 Chapter 936 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2024
14 Section 1(i) and 2

15 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
16 Chapter 937 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2024
17 Section 1(a)

18 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
19 Chapter 937 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2024

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0646*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 646

1 Section 1(i) and 2

2 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
3 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

4 Chapter 936 of the Acts of 2024

5 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
6 That:

7 (a) There is a Task Force on the Creation of a Division of Returning Citizens and
8 Expanded Reentry Services.

[December 2025] OCTOBER 31, 2026,9 (i) On or before 31, the Task Force shall,
10 in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, submit a report to the
11 General Assembly of its findings and recommendations.

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
[2] 313 1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of years and 1 month and, at the end of
[2026] 2027,14 June 30, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly,
15 shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

16 Chapter 937 of the Acts of 2024

17 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
18 That:

19 (a) There is a Task Force on the Creation of a Division of Returning Citizens and
20 Expanded Reentry Services.

[December 2025] OCTOBER 31, 2026,21 (i) On or before 31, the Task Force shall,
22 in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, submit a report to the
23 General Assembly of its findings and recommendations.

24 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
[2] 325 1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of years and 1 month and, at the end of
[2026] 2027,26 June 30, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly,
27 shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

28 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
29 October 1, 2025.