PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 655

A2 5lr1197
CF SB 798

By: Wicomico County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 24, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Wicomico County – Alcoholic Beverages – Temporary To–Go Event Permit and
3 Class C Per Diem Municipal To–Go Beer, Wine, and Liquor License

4 FOR the purpose of establishing a temporary to–go event permit in Wicomico County;
5 authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Wicomico County to issue a
6 temporary to–go event permit to a holder of a Class B beer, wine, and liquor license
7 under certain circumstances; establishing a Class C per diem municipal to–go beer,
8 wine, and liquor license in the county; authorizing the Board to issue a Class C per
9 diem municipal to–go beer, wine, and liquor license to a municipality in the county;
10 requiring the Board to adopt certain regulations; and generally relating to alcoholic
11 beverages in Wicomico County.

12 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
13 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
14 Section 32–102 and 32–902(a), (b), (c), (g), and (h)
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2024 Replacement Volume)

17 BY adding to
18 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
19 Section 32–902(i), 32–1104, and 32–1314
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2024 Replacement Volume)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0655*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 655

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

4 32–102.

5 This title applies only in Wicomico County.

6 32–902.

7 (a) There is a Class B beer, wine, and liquor license.

8 (b) The Board may issue the license for use by:

9 (1) a hotel that has:

10 (i) at least 25 rooms;

11 (ii) a lobby with registration, mail desk, and seating facilities; and

12 (iii) a dining room that serves full–course meals at least twice daily;
13 or

14 (2) (i) a restaurant that:

15 1. has a proper and adequate dining room with facilities for
16 preparing and serving regular meals;

17 2. not counting seating at a bar or counter, has table seating
18 for at least 40 individuals; and

19 3. has average daily receipts from the sale of food, not
20 counting foodstuff contained in a mixed drink, that each month exceed the average daily
21 receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages.

22 (ii) The seating requirement in item (i)1 of this item does not apply
23 to a Class B beer, wine, and liquor license holder who held the license on July 1, 1978.

24 (c) The license authorizes the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor at a
25 hotel or restaurant at retail at the place described in the license, for on–premises
26 consumption.

27 (g) (1) The Board may issue a wine permit to a holder of the license for use by
28 a restaurant that:

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 655 3

1 (i) at least 5 days per week, offers for sale and describes in a printed
2 menu:

3 1. breakfast and lunch;

4 2. breakfast and dinner; or

5 3. lunch and dinner; and

6 (ii) has an area used for the preparation and consumption of food
7 and beverages that is at least 80% of the area of the premises.

8 (2) Off–sale alcoholic beverages receipts shall be included in the calculation
9 of average daily receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages under § 32–901(c)(2)(i)3 of this
10 subtitle.

11 (3) The wine permit authorizes the license holder to sell, at retail, at the
12 place described in the license:

13 (i) beer, wine, and liquor for on–premises consumption; and

14 (ii) wine for off–premises consumption.

15 (4) The term of the wine permit is the same as the term of the Class B
16 license.

17 (5) If the premises is open for business as a restaurant, the hours and days
18 of sale for the wine permit are:

19 (i) 10 a.m. to midnight, Monday through Saturday; and

20 (ii) 12:30 p.m. to midnight on Sunday.

21 (6) Wine sold under the wine permit may not have an alcohol content
22 greater than 15.5%.

23 (7) An applicant for the wine permit shall complete the form that the Board
24 provides.

25 (8) Advertising, posting of notice, and public hearing requirements for the
26 wine permit are the same as those for Class B licenses.

27 (9) The Board may adopt regulations to carry out this subsection, including
28 a limit on the number of wine permits to be granted.

29 (10) The annual permit fee is $1,500.

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 655

1 (h) The holder of a Class B beer, wine, and liquor restaurant license that has been
2 issued a Class 9 limited distillery license may sell products manufactured under the
3 distillery license at the place described in the Class B license in a manner consistent with
4 the underlying Class B license for on– and off–premises consumption.

(I) (1) THE BOARD TO–GO5 MAY ISSUE A TEMPORARY EVENT PERMIT
§ 32–11046 UNDER OF THIS TITLE TO A HOLDER OF A LICENSE UNDER THIS SECTION
7 IF THE LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT IS LOCATED WITHIN OR IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT
CLASS C TO–GO8 TO A SPECIAL EVENT AREA IDENTIFIED IN A PER DIEM MUNICIPAL
BEER, WINE, § 32–1314 TITLE.9 AND LIQUOR LICENSE ISSUED UNDER OF THIS

(2) THE TO–GO10 TEMPORARY EVENT PERMIT AUTHORIZES THE
BEER, WINE, TO–GO11 HOLDER TO SELL AT RETAIL AND LIQUOR IN APPROVED CUPS
12 THAT MAY BE CARRIED OUTSIDE THE LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT AND INTO THE
AREA.13 DESIGNATED SPECIAL EVENT

32–1104.14

(A) THERE TO–GO PERMIT.15 IS A TEMPORARY EVENT

(B) THE BOARD CLASS B BEER,16 MAY ISSUE THE PERMIT TO A HOLDER OF A
WINE,17 AND LIQUOR LICENSE IF THE LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT IS LOCATED WITHIN
18 OR IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO A SPECIAL EVENT AREA IDENTIFIED IN AND FOR
CLASS C TO–GO BEER, WINE,19 USE IN CONJUNCTION WITH A PER DIEM MUNICIPAL
LICENSE.20 AND LIQUOR

(C) THE BEER, WINE,21 PERMIT AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO SELL AT RETAIL
TO–GO22 AND LIQUOR IN APPROVED CUPS THAT MAY BE CARRIED OUTSIDE THE
CLASS B23 LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT OF THE LICENSE AND INTO THE DESIGNATED
AREA.24 SPECIAL EVENT

(D) THE25 PERMIT HOLDER SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLYING WITH
REGULATIONS.26 ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND

(E) THE27 TERM OF THE PERMIT IS THE SAME AS THE TERM OF THE
CLASS C TO–GO BEER, WINE,28 ASSOCIATED PER DIEM MUNICIPAL AND LIQUOR
LICENSE.29

(F) THE BOARD30 SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS RELATED TO THE ISSUANCE
PERMIT, TO:31 OF AND REQUIREMENTS FOR THE INCLUDING REGULATIONS RELATED

(1) AREA;32 THE DESIGNATION OF A SPECIAL EVENT

(2) SALE;33 THE HOURS OF

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 655 5

(3) REQUIREMENTS;1 AGE VERIFICATION

(4) TO–GO CUPS;2 THE USE OF SPECIFIED AND

(5) ADVERTISING, NOTICE,3 POSTING OF AND PUBLIC HEARING
TO–GO PERMIT.4 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE TEMPORARY EVENT

(G) THE $20 DAY.5 FEE FOR THE PERMIT IS PER

32–1314.6

(A) THERE CLASS C TO–GO BEER, WINE,7 IS A PER DIEM MUNICIPAL AND
LICENSE.8 LIQUOR

(B) THE BEER, WINE,9 LICENSE ENTITLES THE LICENSE HOLDER TO ALLOW
TO–GO §10 AND LIQUOR SOLD BY A HOLDER OF A TEMPORARY EVENT PERMIT UNDER
32–110411 OF THIS TITLE TO ENTER A DESIGNATED SPECIAL EVENT AREA DESCRIBED
7 DAYS.12 IN THE LICENSE FOR A PERIOD NOT EXCEEDING CONSECUTIVE

(C) THE BOARD13 MAY ISSUE THE LICENSE TO A MUNICIPALITY IN THE
COUNTY.14

(D) THE BOARD15 SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS RELATED TO THE ISSUANCE
SECTION,16 OF AND REQUIREMENTS FOR A LICENSE UNDER THIS INCLUDING
TO:17 REGULATIONS RELATED

(1) AREA;18 THE DESIGNATION OF A SPECIAL EVENT

(2) SALE;19 THE HOURS OF

(3) REQUIREMENTS;20 AGE VERIFICATION

(4) TO–GO CUPS;21 THE USE OF SPECIFIED

(5) ADVERTISING, NOTICE,22 POSTING OF AND PUBLIC HEARING
TO–GO23 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE LICENSE AND ANY ASSOCIATED TEMPORARY EVENT
PERMIT;24 AND

(6) REQUIREMENTS.25 PUBLIC SAFETY AND EVENT SECURITY

(E) THE $45 DAY.26 FEE FOR THE LICENSE IS PER

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 655

1 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
2 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.