PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 619

Q4, A3 5lr1725

By: Chair, Ways and Means Committee (By Request – Departmental –
Comptroller)
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Sales and Use Tax – Sales Between Cannabis Businesses and Cannabis
3 Nurseries – Exemption

4 FOR the purpose of expanding the exemption from the sales and use tax for certain
5 cannabis sales to include sales between certain licensed cannabis businesses and
6 registered cannabis nurseries; and generally relating to the sales and use tax on the
7 sale of cannabis.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Tax – General
10 Section 11–245
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
14 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

15 Article – Tax – General

16 11–245.

17 The sales and use tax does not apply to the sale of:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0619*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 619

1 (1) medical cannabis under Title 36 of the Alcoholic Beverages and
[or]2 Cannabis Article;

3 (2) cannabis between cannabis businesses that are licensed under Title 36
Article;4 of the Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis OR

(3)5 CANNABIS BETWEEN A CANNABIS BUSINESS LICENSED UNDER
TITLE 36 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES CANNABIS ARTICLE6 OF THE AND AND A
TITLE 36 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES7 CANNABIS NURSERY REGISTERED UNDER OF THE
CANNABIS ARTICLE.8 AND

9 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
10 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.