PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 614

Q3 5lr1726

By: Chair, Ways and Means Committee (By Request – Office of the Comptroller)
Introduced and read first time: January 23, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Local Earned Income Tax Credit – Calculation – County Income Tax Rate

3 FOR the purpose of clarifying the county income tax rate used to calculate the local earned
4 income tax credit that certain individuals may claim against the county income tax;
5 and generally relating to the local earned income tax credit.

6 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
7 Article – Tax – General
8 Section ~~10–704(d)~~ 10–704(a) and (d)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
12 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

13 Article – Tax – General

14 10–704.

section[, “taxpayer”]15 (a) (1) In this THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE
INDICATED.16 MEANINGS

(2) “APPLICABLE RATE” MEANS:17 COUNTY INCOME TAX

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0614*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 614

(I) RATE,1 IF A COUNTY IMPOSES A MARGINAL INCOME TAX THE
COUNTY’S YEAR;2 LOWEST MARGINAL INCOME TAX RATE FOR THE TAXABLE OR

(II)3 IF A COUNTY IMPOSES ONE OR MORE FLAT INCOME TAX
RATES,4 THE COUNTY INCOME TAX RATE FOR THE TAXABLE YEAR THAT IS
TAXPAYER’S5 APPLICABLE TO THE INCOME LEVEL AND FILING STATUS AS
COUNTY.6 ESTABLISHED BY THE

(3) “TAXPAYER”7 means:

[(1)] (I)8 an individual filing an income tax return; or

[(2)] (II)9 a married couple filing a joint income tax return.

10 (d) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection and subject to
11 subsection (e) of this section, the credit allowed against the county income tax under
12 subsection (b)(2) of this section is the lesser of:

13 (i) the earned income credit allowable for the taxable year under §
14 32 of the Internal Revenue Code or that would have been allowable but for the limitation
15 under § 32(m) of the Internal Revenue Code multiplied by 10 times the APPLICABLE
~~[county]~~ ~~COUNTY’S~~16 income tax rate for the taxable year; or~~LOWEST~~ ~~MARGINAL~~

17 (ii) the county income tax for the taxable year.

18 (2) (i) A county may provide, by law, for a refundable county earned
19 income credit as provided in this paragraph.

20 (ii) If a county provides for a refundable county earned income credit
21 under this paragraph, on or before July 1 prior to the beginning of the first taxable year for
22 which it is applicable, the county shall give the Comptroller notice of the refundable county
23 earned income credit.

24 (iii) If a county provides for a refundable county earned income credit
25 under this paragraph, a resident may claim a refund of the amount, if any, by which the
26 product of multiplying the credit allowable for the taxable year under § 32 of the Internal
27 Revenue Code or that would have been allowable but for the limitation under § 32(m) of
~~[county]~~ ~~COUNTY’S~~28 the Internal Revenue Code by 5 times the APPLICABLE ~~LOWEST~~
29 income tax rate for the taxable year exceeds the county income tax for the~~MARGINAL~~
30 taxable year.

31 (iv) The amount of any refunds payable under a refundable county
32 earned income credit operates to reduce the income tax revenue from individuals
33 attributable to the county income tax for that county.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 614 3

1 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
2 1, 2025, and shall be applicable to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.