PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 714

A2 5lr1310
CF SB 745

By: Harford County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Harford County – Alcoholic Beverages – Performing Arts Nonprofit
3 Organization License – Record–Keeping Requirements

4 FOR the purpose of repealing certain incorrect references to the Comptroller of Maryland
5 in certain provisions of law requiring the holder of a performing arts nonprofit
6 organization license in Harford County to comply with certain record–keeping and
7 reporting requirements; repealing the authority of the Comptroller to suspend the
8 license of a license holder without a hearing under certain circumstances;
9 authorizing, rather than requiring, the Board to summon a license holder for a
10 hearing and impose a fine under certain circumstances; and generally relating to
11 alcoholic beverages licenses in Harford County.

12 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
13 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
14 Section 22–102 and 22–1005.2(b)
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2024 Replacement Volume)

17 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
18 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
19 Section 22–1005.2(k)
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2024 Replacement Volume)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0714*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 714

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

4 22–102.

5 This title applies only in Harford County.

6 22–1005.2.

7 (b) There is a performing arts nonprofit organization beer, wine, and liquor
8 license.

9 (k) (1) The license holder shall:

10 (i) keep complete and accurate records of all alcoholic beverages
11 sold, served, and purchased under this section;

[the Comptroller,] Board[,]12 (ii) on written request of the or the
[the Comptroller,] Board[,]13 Executive Director, report on the form that the or the Executive
14 Director requires information relating to the alcoholic beverages that are the subject of the
15 records required to be kept; and

[the Comptroller,] Board[,]16 (iii) on request of the or the Executive
17 Director, make the report under oath.

18 (2) (i) Except as provided in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, each
19 license holder shall keep records at the location designated in the license.

20 (ii) If the license holder is allowed to have more than one location,
21 the license holder may keep the records at the principal location.

22 (iii) The records shall:

[the Comptroller,]23 1. meet form and content requirements of
Board[,]24 the or the Executive Director;

25 2. be preserved for at least 2 years in a manner that ensures
26 permanency; and

27 3. be made available for audit or inspection during regular
[the Comptroller,] [or]28 business hours by the Board, the Executive Director, or a designee
[the Comptroller,] Board[,]29 of the or the Executive Director.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 714 3

[The1 (3) (i) Comptroller may without a hearing immediately suspend
2 for a maximum of 30 days the license of a license holder who fails to comply with this
3 subsection.

(ii)]4 If a report required by this section or an investigation by the
[the Comptroller,]5 Board, a Board officer, the Executive Director, or any other person
[shall]6 indicates that the license holder is violating this section, the Board summonMAY
7 the license holder and conduct a hearing.

[(iii)] (II)8 If the charges at the hearing are sustained, the Board:

[shall]9 1. impose a fine of not less than $250 and notMAY
10 more than $2,000; and

11 2. may suspend or revoke the license holder’s license
12 immediately.

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
14 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.