PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 712

A2 5lr1311
CF SB 746

By: Harford County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Harford County – Alcoholic Beverages – Multiple Licenses – Golf Simulator
3 Facilities

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Harford County to
5 issue a Class GSF (golf simulator facility) license to a holder of a Class B license;
6 clarifying that the Class GSF (golf simulator facility) license counts toward a certain
7 total number of allowable Class B alcoholic beverages licenses a holder may be
8 issued; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Harford County.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
11 Section 22–102
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2024 Replacement Volume)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
15 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
16 Section 22–1607
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2024 Replacement Volume)

19 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
20 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

21 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0712*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 712

1 22–102.

2 This title applies only in Harford County.

3 22–1607.

(A) [The] EXCEPT (B) SECTION,4 AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
5 Board may issue a maximum number of nine Class B licenses to the same person.

(B) (1) THE BOARD CLASS GSF (GOLF6 MAY ISSUE ONE SIMULATOR
FACILITY) § 22–1003.27 LICENSE UNDER OF THIS TITLE TO THE HOLDER OF ONE OR
CLASS B LICENSES.8 MORE

(2) A CLASS GSF (GOLF FACILITY)9 SIMULATOR LICENSE ISSUED
(1)10 UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE TOTAL
11 NUMBER OF LICENSES THAT MAY BE ISSUED TO THE SAME PERSON UNDER
(A) SECTION.12 SUBSECTION OF THIS

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
14 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.