PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 719

M1 5lr0347
CF 5lr0348

By: Chair, Environment and Transportation Committee (By Request –
Departmental – Natural Resources)
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Natural Resources – State Boat Act – Alterations

3 FOR the purpose of altering the definition of “personal watercraft” and “personal flotation
4 device” for purposes of the State Boat Act; repealing the definition of “Class A vessel”
5 as it applies to the rental of livery vessels; repealing the definition of “personal
6 flotation device” as it applies to certain waterskiing restrictions; repealing certain
7 advertising and public hearing requirements for proposed regulations implementing
8 the State Boat Act; increasing ~~the~~ ~~funding~~ ~~threshold~~ certain funding thresholds for
9 certain projects financed by the Waterway Improvement Fund; altering the fees for
10 manufacturer and dealer licenses, certificates of number, Maryland use stickers, and
11 the issuance of certificates of title, transfer of title, or duplicate or corrected
12 certificates of title; authorizing the owner of certain vessels to apply to the
13 Department of Natural Resources for a nonmotorized vessel decal; authorizing the
14 Department to establish or alter certain speed zones or restricted areas by public
15 notice; altering the requirements for a personal flotation device worn by a child in
16 certain vessels; and generally relating to the State Boat Act.

17 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
18 Article – Natural Resources
19 Section 8–701(a)
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

22 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0719*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 719

1 Article – Natural Resources
2 Section 8–701(m), 8–708(b), 8–709(b), 8–710(a) and (c), 8–712(c), 8–712.1(a) and (b),
3 8–712.3(a) and (b), 8–714(c), 8–716(b) and (c), 8–725(c), and 8–743(a) and
4 (b)(1)
5 Annotated Code of Maryland
6 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

7 BY repealing
8 Article – Natural Resources
9 Section 8–704(e)
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 BY adding to
13 Article – Natural Resources
14 Section 8–712.4 and 8–725.9
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

17 BY renumbering
18 Article – Natural Resources
19 Section 8–704(f) through (i)
20 to be Section 8–704(e) through (h), respectively
21 Annotated Code of Maryland
22 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

23 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
24 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

25 Article – Natural Resources

26 8–701.

27 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(1) [Class28 (m) “Personal watercraft” means a A vessel that:

29 (1) Has an inboard motor which uses an internal combustion engine
30 powering a water jet pump as its primary source of motive propulsion;

31 (2) Is designed for the operator and passenger to ride on the outside
32 surfaces of the vessel rather than inside the vessel;

33 (3) Has the probability that the operator and passenger may, in the normal
34 course of use, fall overboard; and

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 719 3

water]1 (4) Is designed with no open load–carrying area which would retain
IS:2 VESSEL THAT

(I) PROPELLED WATER–JET3 BY A PUMP OR OTHER MACHINERY
POWER;4 AS ITS PRIMARY SOURCE OF MOTIVE AND

(II) DESIGNED SITTING,5 TO BE OPERATED BY A PERSON
STANDING,6 VESSEL.OR KNEELING ON THE

(2) “PERSONAL WATERCRAFT”7 DOES NOT INCLUDE A VESSEL THAT IS
SITTING, STANDING,8 DESIGNED TO BE OPERATED BY A PERSON OR KNEELING IN THE
VESSEL’S HULL.9

10 8–704.

[(e)11 Department regulations do not become effective unless advertised publicly in
12 at least 2 daily newspapers of general circulation and at least 1 weekly newspaper serving
13 the area or areas involved at least 45 days before the effective date. If 50 citizens of the
14 State file a petition with the Department at least 15 days prior to the effective date, the
regulations.]15 Department shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed

16 8–708.

17 (b) (1) Except for the construction of pump–out stations for use by the general
18 boating public at public and private marinas, the governing body and the Waterway
19 Improvement Fund jointly shall finance projects to construct marine facilities beneficial to
20 the boating public.

(3) (4)21 (2) Except as provided in ~~paragraph~~ ~~(3)~~ of thisPARAGRAPHS AND
22 subsection, the contribution of the Waterway Improvement Fund shall be limited to not
23 more than 50% of the cost of each project.

24 (3) The Waterway Improvement Fund may finance completely:

1. [Any] SUBJECT 2 ITEM,25 (i) TO ITEM OF THIS ANY
[which] $500,00026 construction project beneficial to the boating public costs ~~$250,000~~THAT
27 or less, regardless of its location; AND

2. ANY28 MARINA CONSTRUCTION PROJECT BENEFICIAL
$1,000,000 LESS,29 TO THE GENERAL BOATING PUBLIC THAT COSTS OR REGARDLESS
LOCATION;30 OF ITS

31 (ii) A project that involves the beneficial use of dredged material;
32 and

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 719

1 (iii) Any water quality monitoring by the Department.

(4) THE WATERWAY IMPROVEMENT FUND2 MAY FINANCE NOT MORE
50% EXCEEDING:3 THAN OF THE COSTS

(I) $500,0004 FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS BENEFICIAL TO
PUBLIC;5 THE BOATING AND

(II) $1,000,0006 FOR MARINA CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
PUBLIC.7 BENEFICIAL TO THE GENERAL BOATING

8 8–709.

9 (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, in any fiscal
10 year the Department may expend from the Waterway Improvement Fund without
[$225,000.11 legislative approval a total sum of not more than Of this amount, a sum of not
12 more than $125,000 may be expended for small projects under § 8–707(a)(3) and (4) of this
subtitle] $350,00013 PROJECTS, subject to theIN OPERATING FUNDS FOR SMALL
[$5,000] $25,00014 limitation that a single project of this kind may not exceed in cost to the
15 Waterway Improvement Fund, and a sum of not more than $100,000 may be expended for
16 boating safety and education.

17 8–710.

[his]18 (a) A manufacturer or dealer may not conduct business in the State unless
[pursuant to]19 licensed as a manufacturer or dealer regulationsIN ACCORDANCE WITH
[adopts].20 the DepartmentADOPTED BY

(1)21 (c) Application for a manufacturer’s or dealer’s license is made on the form
22 the Department prescribes and contains the name and address of the applicant.

(2)23 If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall include the name
24 and address of each partner.

(3)25 If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall contain the names
26 of the principal officers of the corporation, the state of incorporation, the addresses of every
27 place where the business is conducted, the nature of the business, and any other
28 information the Department requires.

(4)29 Every application shall be verified by oath or affirmation of the
30 applicant if an individual, or by the partner or officer if the applicant is a partnership or
31 corporation.

(5) (I) [fixed $25]32 A license fee by the Department not to exceed shall
33 accompany every application.

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 719 5

(II) THE DEPARTMENT1 SHALL SET THE LICENSE FEE AT AN
$50.2 AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED

3 8–712.

(I)4 (c) (1) Certificates of number issued under this section shall be valid for
5 a period not to exceed 2 years.

(II)6 The owner of the vessel may apply every other year for renewal
7 of the certificate.

(III)8 The renewed certificate shall expire on December 31 of the
[The9 calendar year following the year the certificate is issued. fee for a 2–year certificate
10 for vessels is $24. Vessels 16 feet in length or less and equipped with a 7 1/2 horsepower
11 motor or less are exempt from this fee. The fee to replace a lost, destroyed, or corrected
$2.]12 certificate is

(IV)13 The Department shall record any transaction or transfer of
14 numbered boats.

(V)15 The Department may record any amount of money owing on a
16 vessel required to be numbered at the time of sale.

(VI)17 The Department may not effect a transfer of ownership until the
18 amount of money owed as shown on the records of the Department is fully paid or recorded
19 on the new title.

(VII)20 Any vessel that is required to be numbered under this section
[prior to] [this21 that is exempt January 1, 1974, shall be exempt from payment ofBEFORE
title] § 8–71622 tax SUBTITLE.THE EXCISE IMPOSED UNDER OF THIS

EXCEPT (3) SUBSECTION,23 (2) AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
FOR:24 THE FEE

(I) AN $70;25 APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFICATE OF NUMBER IS
26 AND

(II) A27 REPLACEMENT OR CORRECTED CERTIFICATE OF NUMBER
$20.28 IS

(3)29 Emergency rescue boats and fire boats that belong to fire departments
30 or rescue squads in Maryland:

fees,31 (i) Shall be exempt from all registration INCLUDING A FEE
32 NUMBER; butFOR A CERTIFICATE OF

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 719

21 (ii) Shall apply for a registration renewal every ~~3~~ years.

2 8–712.1.

[United3 (a) (1) An owner of a vessel that has a valid document issued by the
States] U.S.4 Coast Guard and that is used principally on the waters of the State for
5 pleasure shall apply to the Department for a Maryland use sticker.

6 (2) The Department shall issue a Maryland use sticker to any person who
7 submits an application and pays a fee as required by subsection (b) of this section.

8 (3) The Maryland use sticker issued under this section shall be valid for a
9 period not to exceed 2 years expiring on December 31 of the calendar year following the
10 year the sticker is issued.

11 (b) The owner of the vessel shall:

12 (1) Submit an application to the Department on the form that the
13 Department requires and that is signed by every owner of the vessel; and

[an] FEES:14 (2) Pay to the Department THE FOLLOWING

(I) AN [$10] $70 sticker;15 application fee of for the 2–year AND

(II) A $2016 STICKER.FEE OF FOR A REPLACEMENT

17 8–712.3.

18 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

19 (2) “Livery vessel owner” means a person who engages in whole or in part
[Class A] 1620 in the business of renting, leasing, or chartering a vessel THAT IS LESS THAN
21 for a period of less than 24 hours.FEET IN LENGTH

[“Class22 (3) A vessel” means a motorboat that is less than 16 feet in length
23 as defined by the U.S. Coast Guard in 46 C.F.R. § 24.10–17.

(4)]24 “Seaworthy condition” means the ability to withstand ordinary stress of
25 wind, waves, and other weather that the vessel might normally be expected to encounter.

26 (b) A livery vessel owner or an agent or employee of the livery vessel owner may
[Class A] 1627 not rent or offer for rent a vessel toTHAT IS LESS THAN FEET IN LENGTH
28 be operated on the waters of the State unless:

PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 719 7

1 (1) Each vessel is in seaworthy condition and equipped for the waters
2 where the vessel is intended to be used; and

3 (2) The livery vessel owner or agent or employee of the livery vessel owner
4 possesses a boating safety certificate approved by the Department.

8–712.4.5

(A) (1) AN DEPARTMENT6 OWNER OF A VESSEL MAY APPLY TO THE FOR A
IS:7 NONMOTORIZED VESSEL DECAL IF THE VESSEL

(I) NOT MACHINERY;8 EQUIPPED WITH PROPULSION

(II) USED STATE;9 PRINCIPALLY ON THE WATERS OF THE AND

(III) NOT § 8–712 §10 SUBJECT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF OR
8–712.1 SUBTITLE.11 OF THIS

(2) THE12 OWNER SHALL APPLY FOR A NONMOTORIZED VESSEL DECAL
DEPARTMENT.13 ON A FORM APPROVED BY THE

(B) A DECAL:14 NONMOTORIZED VESSEL

(1) IS 2 YEARS;15 VALID FOR A PERIOD NOT TO EXCEED AND

(2) EXPIRES DECEMBER 3116 ON OF THE CALENDAR YEAR FOLLOWING
ISSUED.17 THE YEAR THE DECAL WAS

(C) THE $12.18 FEE FOR A NONMOTORIZED VESSEL DECAL IS

(D) THE19 NONMOTORIZED VESSEL DECAL SHALL BE DISPLAYED ON THE
VESSEL.20 EXTERIOR OF THE

(E) WITHIN 3021 DAYS AFTER THE SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER OF A VESSEL
SECTION:22 DISPLAYING A NONMOTORIZED VESSEL DECAL UNDER THIS

(1) THE23 TRANSFEROR SHALL GIVE NOTICE OF THE TRANSFER TO THE
DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT REQUIRES;24 ON A FORM THAT THE AND

(2) IF25 THE TRANSFEREE INTENDS TO CONTINUE TO USE THE VESSEL
STATE,26 PRINCIPALLY ON THE WATERS OF THE THE TRANSFEREE MAY SUBMIT AN
27 APPLICATION FOR A NONMOTORIZED VESSEL DECAL AND PAY THE FEE REQUIRED
(C) SECTION.28 UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

29 8–714.

PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 719

(1)1 (c) Each application for the manufacturer’s or dealer’s certificates of
[$24]2 number shall be on forms the Department approves and be accompanied by a fee of
$70.3

(2)4 The certificate of number issued under this section is valid for a period
5 not to exceed 2 years and shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year following the
6 year the certificate is issued.

7 8–716.

[$2] $208 (b) The Department shall charge a fee to issue a certificate of title, a
9 transfer of title, or a duplicate or corrected certificate of title.

10 (c) (1) Subject to the limitation under paragraph (3) of this subsection and
11 except as provided in § 8–715(d) of this subtitle and in subsections (e) and (f) of this section,
12 and in addition to the fees prescribed in subsection (b) of this section, an excise tax is levied
13 at the rate of 5% of the fair market value of the vessel on:

14 (i) The issuance of every original certificate of title required for a
15 vessel under this subtitle;

16 (ii) The issuance of every subsequent certificate of title for the sale,
17 resale, or transfer of the vessel;

18 (iii) The sale within the State of every other vessel; and

19 (iv) The possession within the State of a vessel used or to be used
20 principally in the State.

(I)21 (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, no tax is paid
22 on issuance of any certificate of title if the owner of the vessel for which a certificate of title
[prior to]23 is sought was the owner of the vessel June 1, 1965, or paid MarylandBEFORE
24 sales and use tax on the vessel as required by law at the time of acquisition.

(II)25 The Department may require the applicant for titling to submit
[prior to]26 satisfactory proof that the applicant owned the vessel June 1, 1965.BEFORE

27 (3) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the excise tax
28 imposed under this subsection may not exceed $15,000 for any vessel.

29 (ii) The maximum amount of the excise tax imposed for any vessel
30 as specified in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall be increased by $100 on:

31 1. July 1, 2016; and

PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 719 9

1 2. July 1 of each subsequent year.

2 8–725.

[(1)3 (c) In this subsection, “personal flotation device” includes:

4 (i) A life jacket;

5 (ii) A life vest;

6 (iii) A life preserver;

7 (iv) A barefoot wet suit; or

8 (v) A trick skiing wet suit.

(2)]9 A person who is in or over the waters of the State and is being towed
device, SUIT,10 behind a vessel must wear a personal flotation A BAREFOOT WET OR A
11 SUIT.TRICK SKIING WET

8–725.9.12

(A) NOTWITHSTANDING TITLE,13 ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS THE
DEPARTMENT NOTICE:14 MAY ESTABLISH OR ALTER BY PUBLIC

(1) IF DEPARTMENT15 THE DETERMINES PUBLIC SAFETY IS AT RISK
ACTION,16 AND IT IS CONTRARY TO THE PUBLIC INTEREST TO DELAY A SPEED ZONE
NEAR:17

(I) A STATE18 CONSTRUCTION PROJECT ON OR ADJACENT TO
WATERS;19

(II) A EVENT;20 MARINE OR

(III) AN SITUATION;21 ACCIDENT OR OTHER EMERGENT OR

(2) AN CONTROLLED, LIMITED,22 AREA WHERE VESSEL MOVEMENT IS
U.S. COAST GUARD23 OR RESTRICTED AS DESIGNATED BY THE OR ANOTHER FEDERAL
AGENCY.24

(B) THE DEPARTMENT25 MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THIS
SECTION.26

27 8–743.

PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 719

1 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

2 (2) “Child” means an individual who is under the age of 13 years.

[Type3 (3) “Personal flotation device” means a I, II, III, or V U.S. Coast
4 Guard approved personal flotation device that is:

5 (i) The proper size for the child; and

condition]6 (ii) In good and serviceable FLOTATION DEVICE THAT IS
U.S. COAST GUARD.7 APPROVED BY THE

8 (4) (i) “Vessel” means:

9 1. A vessel used for recreational purposes; or

10 2. A vessel leased, rented, or chartered for noncommercial
11 use.

12 (ii) “Vessel” does not include a vessel carrying passengers for hire
13 under the command of an individual licensed by the U.S. Coast Guard to carry passengers
14 for hire, or a vessel displaying a valid seafood harvester’s license number while engaged in
15 the harvesting of seafood for sale.

[permit]16 (b) (1) A person may not operate or the operation of a vesselALLOW
[while] [present vessel] [not]17 under 21 feet in length there is in the a childIF PRESENT IN
[which]18 wearing a personal flotation device isTHE VESSEL UNLESS THE CHILD IS THAT
[securely]:19

(I) PROPERLY CHILD;20 SIZED FOR THE

(II) IN CONDITION;21 GOOD AND SERVICEABLE AND

(III) SECURELY22 and properly attached to the child.

23 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section(s) 8–704(f) through
24 (i) of Article – Natural Resources of the Annotated Code of Maryland be renumbered to be
25 Section(s) 8–704(e) through (h), respectively.

26 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
27 October 1, 2025.