PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 720

M1 5lr0355
CF 5lr0356

By: Chair, Environment and Transportation Committee (By Request –
Departmental – Natural Resources)
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 25, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Natural Resources – Repeal of Somers Cove Marina Commission and
3 Improvement Fund and Alteration of Operations

4 FOR the purpose of repealing provisions of law relating to the Somers Cove Marina
5 Commission, the Somers Cove Marina Improvement Fund, and the operation of
6 Somers Cove Marina; authorizing the Secretary of Natural Resources to execute
7 certain leases, procure and execute certain contracts, ~~and~~ employ certain staff, and
8 assess certain fees; requiring the Secretary to set the compensation for certain
9 employees under certain circumstances; establishing the Somers Cove Marina
10 Advisory Commission to advise the Secretary on certain matters relating to the
11 Somers Cove Marina; requiring certain revenue received by the Department of
12 Natural Resources to be deposited into the Natural Resources Property Maintenance
13 Fund; altering the uses of the Natural Resources Property Maintenance Fund;
14 requiring interest earnings of the Natural Resources Property Maintenance Fund to
15 be credited to that Fund; and generally relating to Somers Cove Marina.

16 BY repealing
17 Article – Natural Resources
18 Section 5–908.1
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

21 BY adding to
22 Article – Natural Resources

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0720*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 720

1 Section 5–908.1 and 5–908.2
2 Annotated Code of Maryland
3 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

4 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
5 Article – Natural Resources
6 Section 5–909
7 Annotated Code of Maryland
8 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Article – State Finance and Procurement
11 Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
15 Article – State Finance and Procurement
16 Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)204. and 205.
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

19 BY adding to
20 Article – State Finance and Procurement
21 Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)206.
22 Annotated Code of Maryland
23 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

24 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
25 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

26 Article – Natural Resources

[5–908.1.27

28 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

29 (2) “Commission” means the Somers Cove Marina Commission.

30 (3) “Fund” means the Somers Cove Marina Improvement Fund.

31 (4) “Unencumbered” means not pledged for use by the State for Somers
32 Cove Marina before the creation of the Commission.

33 (b) (1) (i) There is a Somers Cove Marina Commission.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 720 3

1 (ii) The Commission is a body politic and corporate and an
2 instrumentality of the State.

3 (2) The Commission consists of the following members:

4 (i) Two members from Somerset County, appointed by the Board of
5 County Commissioners of Somerset County, one of whom shall be a member of the Somerset
6 County business community;

7 (ii) Two members from the City of Crisfield, appointed by the Mayor
8 of Crisfield, one of whom shall be a member of the Somerset County business community;
9 and

10 (iii) Three members appointed by the Secretary, one of whom shall
11 be a current slip holder at Somers Cove Marina.

12 (3) (i) The term of a member is 4 years.

13 (ii) A member may not serve more than 2 consecutive terms.

14 (iii) At the end of a term, a member continues to serve until a
15 successor is appointed and qualifies.

16 (iv) A member who is appointed after a term has begun serves only
17 for the rest of the term and until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

18 (4) A member is not entitled to compensation except for reimbursement for
19 expenses as provided in the budget of the Commission.

20 (5) (i) The Commission shall elect a chair and a vice chair of the
21 Commission from among its members.

22 (ii) The Commission shall appoint a secretary–treasurer who need
23 not be a member of the Commission.

24 (iii) A secretary–treasurer who is not a member of the Commission
25 may not vote on matters before the Commission.

26 (6) (i) The Commission shall meet at least every 2 months, as
27 determined by the chair.

28 (ii) At least 10 days before each meeting, written notice shall be
29 given to each member of the Commission.

30 (7) Five members of the Commission are a quorum.

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 720

1 (8) A majority vote of the members present at a meeting having a quorum
2 is needed for the Commission to act.

3 (9) (i) The Secretary may remove a member of the Commission for any
4 reason upon a majority vote of the members of the Commission.

5 (ii) If a member is removed, a new member shall promptly be
6 appointed by the individual or body that appointed the removed member.

7 (c) (1) The Secretary shall:

8 (i) Appoint an Executive Director;

9 (ii) Consult with the Commission in conducting the annual
10 performance evaluation of the Executive Director; and

11 (iii) Review and make determinations on requests for approval of
12 leases and contracts submitted to the Secretary by the Executive Director in accordance
13 with subsection (d) of this section.

14 (2) The Executive Director:

15 (i) Shall administer the Fund;

16 (ii) On or before May 1 of each year, and after consulting with the
17 Commission, shall prepare operating and capital budgets for the subsequent fiscal year and
18 submit the budgets to the Commission for review and approval;

19 (iii) Shall supervise the marina manager;

20 (iv) May execute leases of land, buildings, or facilities at Somers Cove
21 Marina and execute contracts for events or concessions at Somers Cove Marina in
22 accordance with subsection (c) of this section;

23 (v) Subject to the approval of the Secretary, and in cooperation with
24 the Commission, shall develop an annual master plan for the operations, maintenance,
25 development, and improvement of Somers Cove Marina that improves services to the
26 general boating public;

27 (vi) Shall administer, in cooperation with the Commission, all
28 unencumbered grants;

29 (vii) 1. Shall employ a staff to operate and maintain Somers Cove
30 Marina, and set the staff’s compensation; and

31 2. Shall, except for the marina manager, employ staff as
32 employees of the Commission; and

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 720 5

1 (viii) Shall be an employee of the State and serve at the pleasure of the
2 Secretary.

3 (3) (i) The marina manager shall be an employee of the State.

4 (ii) The marina manager is responsible for the day–to–day
5 operations of the marina.

6 (4) On approval of and subject to the conditions that the Department may
7 require, Commission staff who are not employees of the Department may use vehicles or
8 equipment of the Department.

9 (d) (1) A lease of land, a building, or other facility at the Somers Cove Marina
10 or a contract for an event or concession at the Somers Cove Marina shall conform to the
11 annual master plan approved under subsection (c)(2)(v) of this section.

12 (2) A lease of land, a building, or a facility or a contract for an event or
13 concession that is executed by the Executive Director:

14 (i) May not be for a term of more than 5 years or be renewed for
15 more than an additional 5 years; and

16 (ii) Shall be reviewed and approved by the Commission and Office of
17 the Attorney General.

18 (3) A lease entered into before the creation of the Commission shall remain
19 in effect for the duration of the term of the lease.

20 (4) (i) The Executive Director may not execute a lease or contract for
21 nonboating related improvements or goods at the marina without the approval of the
22 Secretary.

23 (ii) Within 30 days after receiving a request for approval of a lease
24 or contract, the Secretary shall provide the Executive Director with an initial response that
25 may include a process or plan of action for addressing the merits of the request.

26 (e) On approval of and subject to the conditions that the Secretary may require,
27 the Department may transfer any vehicle, equipment, or other inventory to the
28 Commission.

29 (f) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (6) of this subsection, the Executive
30 Director shall procure goods, services, and capital improvement, design, and maintenance
31 projects in accordance with the requirements of this subsection.

32 (2) For goods, services, and capital improvement, design, and maintenance
33 projects with an expected value of $1,000 to $5,000, the Executive Director shall:

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 720

1 (i) Make a written or telephone request for bids;

2 (ii) Evaluate the bids; and

3 (iii) Award the contract to the responsible bidder that submits the
4 responsive bid that is the lowest bid price.

5 (3) For goods, services, and capital improvement, design, and maintenance
6 projects with an expected value of $5,000 to $200,000, the Executive Director shall:

7 (i) Advertise the solicitation in a local newspaper and on the
8 Somerset County website;

9 (ii) Issue invitations for bids to all known prospective vendors;

10 (iii) Tabulate and evaluate the bids;

11 (iv) Select for award the responsible bidder who submits the
12 responsive bid that is the lowest bid price; and

13 (v) Submit the proposed award to the Commission for review and
14 approval.

15 (4) The Executive Director shall procure goods, services, and capital
16 improvement, design, and maintenance projects with an expected value exceeding $200,000
17 in accordance with Division II of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

18 (5) For goods, services, and capital improvement, design, and maintenance
19 projects funded by the proceeds from State bonds, the Executive Director shall submit the
20 proposed award to the Board of Public Works for approval.

21 (6) For an emergency procurement that the Executive Director determines
22 to be necessary to avoid or mitigate serious damage to public health, safety, or welfare, the
23 Executive Director shall:

24 (i) Obtain as much competition as possible under the circumstances;
25 and

26 (ii) After awarding the procurement contract, submit to the
27 Commission and the Secretary a written report that gives the justification for the use of
28 the emergency procurement procedure.

29 (7) The Executive Director shall adopt a procurement policy that includes
30 provisions for minority– and women–owned business participation.

PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 720 7

1 (8) This subsection does not apply to procurement in support of enterprise
2 activities for the purpose of direct resale or remanufacture and subsequent resale.

3 (g) (1) The Commission shall:

4 (i) Adopt an operating budget to use the Fund to implement the
5 master plan;

6 (ii) Adopt a capital budget that may use funds from Somerset
7 County, the City of Crisfield, the State, and other sources to implement the master plan;

8 (iii) 1. Apply for grants from the Waterway Improvement Fund
9 in accordance with Title 8, Subtitle 7 of this article; and

10 2. Subject to the Secretary’s approval, receive approved
11 grant amounts at the time of acceptance of a bid or bids for waterway improvement work;

12 (iv) Assess slip and other fees and charges at Somers Cove Marina as
13 necessary in order to implement the master plan;

14 (v) Set policy and provide general oversight of marina operations;
15 and

16 (vi) Adopt rules and regulations necessary for the conduct of its own
17 affairs.

18 (2) The Commission may:

19 (i) Accept gifts, contributions, or loans of money, supplies, goods,
20 and services, and accept appropriations, allotments, and loans of money from:

21 1. The State or federal government;

22 2. A federal corporation;

23 3. A unit or instrumentality of the federal government; or

24 4. A political subdivision or instrumentality of the State;

25 (ii) Exercise a power usually possessed by a private corporation in
26 performing similar functions unless to do so would conflict with State law; and

27 (iii) Do all things necessary to carry out the mandates and powers
28 expressly provided by this section.

PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 720

1 (h) There is a Somers Cove Marina Improvement Fund in the Commission, to be
2 used for the operation, maintenance, development, and improvement of the Somers Cove
3 Marina facilities in Crisfield, Maryland.

4 (i) Any money obtained by the Commission from Somers Cove Marina shall be
5 credited to the Fund.

6 (j) (1) The Commission shall:

7 (i) Maintain the Fund in a bank account separate from State funds;

8 (ii) Transfer any unencumbered money in the Fund run by the
9 Department to the Commission’s Fund; and

10 (iii) Reimburse the State for the salary of the marina manager.

11 (2) Money of the Fund is:

12 (i) Not money of the State within the meaning of Article VI of the
13 Maryland Constitution; and

14 (ii) Subject to audit by the State, including the Department and the
15 Legislative Auditor.

16 (3) Money pledged for use by the State for Somers Cove Marina before the
17 creation of the Commission shall be used for the same purpose as originally pledged.

18 (k) On or before October 1 of each year, the Commission shall provide to the
19 Department an accounting of revenues and expenses from Somers Cove Marina for the
20 previous fiscal year.

21 (l) (1) On November 1, 2011, the Department and the Commission shall begin
22 to evaluate the Commission’s work so that the Department and the Commission may make
23 findings and recommendations concerning the Commission’s ability to:

24 (i) Operate, maintain, develop, and improve Somers Cove Marina in
25 an effective manner; and

26 (ii) Afford or assume the costs of operating, maintaining, developing,
27 and improving Somers Cove Marina, including the salaries of:

28 1. The Executive Director; and

29 2. Employees of the State who remain working at Somers
30 Cove Marina.

PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 720 9

1 (2) On November 1, 2013, based on the evaluation undertaken in
2 accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Department and the Commission
3 shall report their findings and recommendations, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
Assembly.]4 Government Article, to the General

5–908.1.5

(A) THE SECRETARY:6

(1) MAY:7

(I) EXECUTE LAND, BUILDINGS,8 LEASES OF OR FACILITIES AT
SOMERS COVE MARINA;9

(II) PROCURE OPERATIONS,10 AND EXECUTE CONTRACTS FOR
MAINTENANCE, MANAGEMENT, IMPROVEMENTS, EVENTS,11 OR CONCESSIONS AT
SOMERS COVE MARINA DIVISION II STATE FINANCE12 IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
PROCUREMENT ARTICLE;13 AND

(III) EMPLOY14 A MARINA MANAGER WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
DAY–TO–DAY SOMERS COVE MARINA;15 THE OPERATIONS OF ~~AND~~

(IV) EMPLOY16 ADDITIONAL STAFF TO OPERATE AND MAINTAIN
SOMERS COVE MARINA;17 AND

(V) ASSESS18 SLIP AND OTHER FEES AND CHARGES AS
OPERATE, MAINTAIN, MANAGE, SOMERS COVE19 NECESSARY TO AND IMPROVE
MARINA;20 AND

(2) SHALL:21

(I) IF APPLICABLE,22 SET THE COMPENSATION FOR A MANAGER
(1)(III) (IV) SECTION;23 AND STAFF EMPLOYED UNDER ITEM AND OF THIS

(II) ON OCTOBER 1, 2027,24 OR BEFORE DEVELOP A MASTER
OPERATIONS, MAINTENANCE, DEVELOPMENT,25 PLAN FOR THE AND IMPROVEMENT
SOMERS COVE MARINA26 OF THAT IMPROVES SERVICES TO THE GENERAL BOATING
PUBLIC;27 AND

(III) ON OCTOBER 1, 2032, OCTOBER 128 OR BEFORE AND EVERY
5 THEREAFTER, (II)29 YEARS UPDATE THE MASTER PLAN DEVELOPED UNDER ITEM OF
ITEM.30 THIS

(B) ALL DEPARTMENT MANAGING,31 REVENUE RECEIVED BY THE FROM
OPERATING, MAINTAINING, IMPROVING, SOMERS COVE MARINA32 AND DEVELOPING

PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 720

NATURAL RESOURCES PROPERTY MAINTENANCE1 SHALL BE DEPOSITED INTO THE
FUND § 5–909 SUBTITLE.2 ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

5–908.2.3

(A) IN SECTION, “COMMISSION” SOMERS COVE MARINA4 THIS MEANS THE
ADVISORY COMMISSION.5

(B) (1) THERE SOMERS COVE MARINA ADVISORY COMMISSION6 IS A IN
DEPARTMENT.7 THE

(2) (I) THE COMMISSION8 SHALL CONSIST OF THE FOLLOWING
MEMBERS:9

1. ONE SOMERSET COUNTY,10 REPRESENTATIVE FROM
BOARD COUNTY COMMISSIONERS SOMERSET COUNTY;11 APPOINTED BY THE OF OF

2. ONE CITY12 REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE OF
CRISFIELD, MAYOR CRISFIELD;13 APPOINTED BY THE OF

3. THE SECRETARY, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;14 OR THE

4. ONE15 REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE COMMERCIAL
INDUSTRY;16 FISHING

5. ONE17 REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE ECONOMIC
INDUSTRY;18 DEVELOPMENT OR TOURISM

6. ONE OWNERS,19 REPRESENTATIVE OF SAILBOAT WHO
SOMERS COVE MARINA;20 MAY BE A CURRENT SLIP HOLDER AT AND

7. ONE OWNERS,21 REPRESENTATIVE OF POWER BOAT
SOMERS COVE MARINA.22 WHO MAY BE A CURRENT SLIP HOLDER AT

(II) THE COMMISSION23 COMPOSITION OF THE SHALL
CROSS–SECTION24 CONSTITUTE A DIVERSE OF STAKEHOLDERS BROADLY
TOURISM,25 REPRESENTATIVE OF MULTIPLE INTERESTS INCLUDING ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, COMMUNITIES, FISHING, BOATING.26 BUSINESS AND

(3) FROM MEMBERS, COMMISSION27 AMONG ITS THE SHALL ELECT A
CHAIR.28 CHAIR AND A VICE

(4) (I) THE 4 YEARS.29 TERM OF A MEMBER IS

PAGE 11
HOUSE BILL 720 11

(II) AT TERM,1 THE END OF A A MEMBER CONTINUES TO SERVE
QUALIFIES.2 UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND

(III) A3 MEMBER WHO IS APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN
4 SERVES ONLY FOR THE REST OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED
QUALIFIES.5 AND

(5) THE COMMISSION BIANNUALLY.6 SHALL MEET AT LEAST

(C) THE COMMISSION SECRETARY7 SHALL ADVISE THE ON MATTERS
MANAGEMENT, OPERATION, MAINTENANCE,8 RELATED TO THE AND DEVELOPMENT
SOMERS COVE MARINA.9 OF

10 5–909.

11 (a) In this section, “Fund” means the Natural Resources Property Maintenance
12 Fund.

[(b)13 The Natural Resources Property Maintenance Fund is created within the
14 Department to be used for the maintenance, repair, and management of property owned by
15 the Department.

16 (c) (1) The Fund is a special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to § 7–302 of
17 the State Finance and Procurement Article.

18 (2) Any investment earnings of the Fund shall be credited to the General
19 Fund of the State.

20 (3) Money in the Fund may be used for administrative costs calculated in
article.]21 accordance with § 1–103(b)(2) of this

(B) THERE NATURAL RESOURCES PROPERTY MAINTENANCE FUND22 IS A IN
DEPARTMENT.23 THE

(C) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.24 SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,25 IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.26 SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,27 SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.28 AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:29 CONSISTS

(1) MONEY STATE FUND;30 APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

PAGE 12
12 HOUSE BILL 720

(2) REVENUE FUND §1 DEPOSITED INTO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
5–908.1(B) SUBTITLE;2 OF THIS

(3) INTEREST EARNINGS;3 AND

(4) ANY4 OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.5 THE BENEFIT OF THE

(F) THE FUND FOR:6 MAY BE USED ONLY

(1) MAINTAINING, REPAIRING,7 AND MANAGING PROPERTY OWNED BY
DEPARTMENT;8 THE

(2) MANAGING, OPERATING, MAINTAINING,9 AND DEVELOPING
SOMERS COVE MARINA;10 AND

(3) ADMINISTRATIVE11 EXPENSES CALCULATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
§ 1–103(B)(2) ARTICLE.12 OF THIS

(G) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUND13 SHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.14 IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUND15 INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.16 THE

(H) EXPENDITURES FUND17 FROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.18 WITH THE

19 Article – State Finance and Procurement

20 6–226.

21 (a) (2) (i) 1. This subparagraph does not apply in fiscal years 2024
22 through 2028.

23 2. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
24 inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
25 terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
26 State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
27 receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
28 Fund of the State.

29 (ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
30 to the following funds:

PAGE 13
HOUSE BILL 720 13

1 204. the Victims of Domestic Violence Program Grant Fund;
[and]2

Fund;3 205. the Proposed Programs Collaborative Grant AND

206. NATURAL RESOURCES PROPERTY4 THE
MAINTENANCE FUND.5

6 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Department of Natural
7 Resources shall strive to ensure that current members of the Somers Cove Marina
8 Commission are appointed to the Somers Cove Marina Advisory Commission.

9 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Department of Natural
10 Resources and the Somers Cove Marina Commission shall work cooperatively to ensure the
11 continuity of operations at the marina as management responsibilities are transferred from
12 the Commission to the Department, including any necessary assignments of contracts and
13 negotiation or renegotiation of agreements related to the facility, property, management,
14 maintenance, service, and staffing.

15 SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before October 1, 2025,
16 the Somers Cove Marina Commission shall transfer the remaining balance from the Somers
17 Cove Marina Improvement Fund to the Natural Resources Property Maintenance Fund
18 established under § 5–909 of the Natural Resources Article, including any unencumbered
19 funds, accounts receivable, and cancelled encumbrances.

20 SECTION ~~2~~ 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
21 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.