PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 745

J2 5lr3307

By: ~~Delegate~~ ~~Guyton~~ Delegates Guyton, Alston, Bagnall, Bhandari, Chisholm,
Cullison, Guzzone, Hill, Hutchinson, S. Johnson, Kaiser, Kerr, Kipke,
Lopez, Martinez, M. Morgan, Pena–Melnyk, Reilly, Rosenberg, Szeliga,
Taveras, White Holland, Woods, and Woorman
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Health and Government Operations

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 State Board of Professional Counselors and Therapists – Behavior Analysts –
3 Licensure Applications

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the State Board of Professional Counselors and Therapists
5 to issue a license to practice behavior analysis to qualified applicants within a certain
6 amount of time; requiring the State Board to provide a certain e–mail notification
7 regarding the status of an application for a license to practice behavior analysis; and
8 generally relating to behavior analyst licensure applications submitted to the State
9 Board of Professional Counselors and Therapists.

10 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
11 Article – Health Occupations
12 Section 17–6A–13
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

15 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
16 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

17 Article – Health Occupations

18 17–6A–13.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0745*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 745

(1)1 (a) The Board shall issue a license to any applicant who meets the
2 requirements of this subtitle.

(2) IF3 AN APPLICANT SUBMITS A COMPLETE APPLICATION FOR
SUBTITLE, BOARD4 LICENSURE AND MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS THE SHALL
~~10~~ 305 ISSUE THE LICENSE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIVING THE COMPLETED
APPLICATION.6

(3) IF7 AN APPLICANT SUBMITTED AN INCOMPLETE APPLICATION BUT
8 IS DETERMINED TO MEET THE REQUIREMENTS UNDER THIS SUBTITLE BASED ON
APPLICANT, BOARD9 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUBMITTED BY THE THE SHALL
~~30~~ 5010 ISSUE THE LICENSE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIVING THE ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION.11

12 (b) The Board shall include on each license that the Board issues:

13 (1) The full name of the licensed behavior analyst;

14 (2) The dates of issuance and expiration;

15 (3) A serial number;

16 (4) The signatures of the chair and the vice chair of the Board; and

17 (5) The seal of the Board.

18 (c) (1) On receipt of the criminal history record information of an applicant for
19 licensure forwarded to the Board in accordance with § 17–501.1 of this title, in determining
20 whether to grant a license, the Board shall consider:

21 (i) The age at which the crime was committed;

22 (ii) The circumstances surrounding the crime;

23 (iii) The length of time that has passed since the crime;

24 (iv) Subsequent work history;

25 (v) Employment and character references; and

26 (vi) Other evidence that demonstrates whether the applicant poses a
27 threat to the public health or safety.

28 (2) The Board may not issue a license if the criminal history record
29 information required under § 17–501.1 of this title has not been received.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 745 3

(D) (1) THE BOARD E–MAIL1 SHALL SEND AN NOTIFICATION TO AN
BOARD:2 APPLICANT WHEN THE

(I) RECEIVES APPLICATION;3 THE

(II) BEGINS APPLICATION;4 ITS REVIEW OF THE

(III) DETERMINES5 THAT THE APPLICATION IS COMPLETE OR THE
INFORMATION;6 APPLICATION NEEDS ADDITIONAL OR

(IV) DECIDES LICENSE.7 TO ISSUE OR DENY THE

(2) AT8 THE REQUEST OF AN APPLICANT OR A THIRD PARTY
APPLICANT, BOARD E–MAIL9 DESIGNATED BY THE THE SHALL PROVIDE ADDITIONAL
APPLICATION.10 NOTIFICATIONS REGARDING THE STATUS OF THE

11 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
12 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.