START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 750

Q2 5lr2586
CF SB 596

By: Washington County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 5, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Washington County – Property Tax Credit – Economic Development Projects

3 FOR the purpose of altering eligibility requirements for a certain property tax credit for
4 certain business entities that invest a certain amount in certain real property in
5 Washington County and create a certain number of new and permanent full–time
6 jobs in the county; altering the amount and duration of the property tax credit; and
7 generally relating to a property tax credit for business entities that invest in real
8 property and create jobs in Washington County.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Tax – Property
11 Section 9–323(f)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Tax – Property

17 9–323.

18 (f) (1) (i) In this subsection the following words have the meanings
19 indicated.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0750*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 750

1 (ii) “Affiliate” means a person:

2 1. that directly or indirectly owns at least 80% of a business
3 entity; or

4 2. at least 80% of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a
5 business entity.

6 (iii) “Business entity” means a person conducting a trade or business
7 in the State that is subject to the State individual or corporate income tax or insurance
8 premiums tax.

9 (iv) “Full–time position” means a position requiring at least 840
10 hours of an individual’s time during at least 24 weeks in a 6–month period.

11 [(v) “New or expanded premises” means commercial or industrial
12 real property, including a building or part of a building that has not been previously
13 occupied, where a business entity or its affiliates locate to conduct business.]

14 [(vi)] (V) 1. “New permanent full–time position” means a
15 position that is:

16 A. a full–time position of indefinite duration;

17 B. located in Washington County;

18 C. newly created, as a result of the establishment,
19 RENOVATION, or expansion of a business facility in the county; and

20 D. filled.

21 2. “New permanent full–time position” does not include a
22 position that is:

23 A. created when an employment function is shifted from an
24 existing business facility of the business entity or its affiliates located in Washington
25 County to another business facility of the same entity or its affiliates, if the position does
26 not represent a net new job in the county;

27 B. created through a change in ownership of a trade or
28 business;

29 C. created through a consolidation, merger, or restructuring
30 of a business entity or its affiliates, if the position does not represent a net new job in the
31 county;
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 750 3

1 D. created when an employment function is contractually
2 shifted from an existing business entity or its affiliates located in the county to another
3 business entity or its affiliates, if the position does not represent a net new job in the county;
4 or

5 E. filled for a period of less than 12 months.

6 (VI) “NEW, RENOVATED, OR EXPANDED PREMISES” MEANS
7 COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL REAL PROPERTY, INCLUDING A BUILDING OR PART OF
8 A BUILDING THAT HAS NOT BEEN PREVIOUSLY OCCUPIED, WHERE A BUSINESS
9 ENTITY OR ITS AFFILIATES LOCATE TO CONDUCT BUSINESS.

10 (2) The governing body of Washington County may grant, by law, a
11 property tax credit against the county property tax imposed on real property owned or
12 leased by a business entity that meets the requirements specified for the property tax credit
13 under this subsection.

14 (3) To qualify for a property tax credit under this subsection, before a
15 business entity meets the requirements specified for the property tax credit under
16 paragraph (4) of this subsection, the business entity shall provide written notification to
17 the governing body of Washington County stating:

18 (i) that the business entity intends to claim the property tax credit;
19 and

20 (ii) when the business entity expects to meet the requirements
21 specified for the property tax credit under paragraph (4) of this subsection.

22 (4) To qualify for a property tax credit under this subsection:

23 (i) an existing business entity in the county shall:

24 1. obtain at least an additional 1,500 square feet of new,
25 RENOVATED, or expanded premises by purchasing newly constructed premises,
26 constructing new premises, causing new premises to be constructed, RENOVATING
27 EXISTING PREMISES, or leasing previously unoccupied premises; and

28 2. employ at least [one individual] FIVE INDIVIDUALS in [a]
29 new permanent full–time [position] POSITIONS during a 12–month period, during which
30 period the business entity also must obtain and occupy the new, RENOVATED, or expanded
31 premises;

32 (ii) a new business entity locating in the county shall:

33 1. obtain at least 2,500 square feet of new, RENOVATED, or
34 expanded premises by purchasing newly constructed premises, constructing new premises,
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 750

1 causing new premises to be constructed, RENOVATING EXISTING PREMISES, or leasing
2 previously unoccupied premises; and

3 2. employ at least [five] 25 individuals in new permanent
4 full–time positions during a 24–month period, during which period the business entity also
5 must obtain and occupy the new, RENOVATED, or expanded premises; or

6 (iii) a new business entity locating in the county or an existing
7 business entity in the county shall:

8 1. invest at least [$10,000,000] $20,000,000 in capital
9 improvements in the county by purchasing newly constructed premises, constructing new
10 premises, causing new premises to be constructed, RENOVATING EXISTING PREMISES, or
11 leasing previously unoccupied premises; and

12 2. as a result of the capital improvements specified in item 1
13 of this item, create [100] 200 new permanent full–time positions.

14 (5) (i) If an existing business entity in the county meets the
15 requirements of paragraph (4)(i) of this subsection, the property tax credit granted under
16 this subsection shall equal a percentage of the amount of property tax imposed on the
17 assessment of the new, RENOVATED, or expanded premises, as follows:

18 1. [52%] 55% in the first [and second taxable years]
19 TAXABLE YEAR;

20 2. [39%] 40% in the [third and fourth taxable years]
21 SECOND TAXABLE YEAR; and

22 3. [26%] 25% in the [fifth and sixth taxable years] THIRD
23 TAXABLE YEAR.

24 (ii) If a new business entity locating in the county meets the
25 requirements of paragraph (4)(ii) of this subsection, the property tax credit granted under
26 this subsection shall equal a percentage of the amount of property tax imposed on the
27 assessment of the new, RENOVATED, or expanded premises, as follows:

28 1. [30%] 55% in the first and second taxable years;

29 2. [20%] 40% in the third and fourth taxable years; and

30 3. [10%] 25% in the fifth and sixth taxable years.

31 (iii) If a new or existing business entity in the county meets the
32 requirements of paragraph (4)(iii) of this subsection, the property tax credit granted under
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 750 5

1 this subsection shall equal a percentage of the amount of county property tax imposed on
2 the assessment of the new, RENOVATED, or expanded premises, as follows:

3 1. [100%] 75% for each of the first 5 taxable years;

4 2. [75%] 70% in THE SIXTH taxable [years 6 through 10]
5 YEAR;

6 3. [50%] 65% in THE SEVENTH taxable [years 11 through
7 15] YEAR; [and]

8 4. 60% IN THE EIGHTH TAXABLE YEAR;

9 5. 55% IN THE NINTH TAXABLE YEAR;

10 6. 50% IN THE 10TH TAXABLE YEAR;

11 7. 45% IN THE 11TH TAXABLE YEAR;

12 8. 40% IN THE 12TH TAXABLE YEAR;

13 9. 35% IN THE 13TH TAXABLE YEAR;

14 10. 30% IN THE 14TH TAXABLE YEAR;

15 11. 25% IN THE 15TH TAXABLE YEAR; AND

16 [4.] 12. 0% in taxable year 16 and each taxable year
17 thereafter.

18 (6) The lessor of real property granted a property tax credit under this
19 subsection shall reduce the amount of taxes for which a business entity is contractually
20 liable under the lease agreement by the amount of any credit granted under this subsection
21 for improvements made by the business entity.

22 (7) The governing body of Washington County shall provide, by law, for:

23 (i) the specific requirements for eligibility for a property tax credit
24 authorized under this subsection;

25 (ii) any additional limitations on eligibility for the credit; and

26 (iii) any other provision appropriate to implement the credit.
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 750

1 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
2 1, 2025, and shall be applicable to all taxable years beginning after June 30, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 6