PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 787

D1 5lr2307
CF SB 622

By: Chair, Judiciary Committee (By Request – Maryland Judiciary)
Introduced and read first time: January 29, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Courts – State Reporter – Publication of Cases

3 FOR the purpose of repealing a requirement that the State Reporter secure copyright for
4 the State of published reports of opinions of the Supreme Court of Maryland and the
5 Appellate Court of Maryland; and generally relating to the State Reporter and the
6 publication of cases.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
9 Section 13–203
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

15 13–203.

(A)16 The State Reporter, under the supervision of the Supreme Court of Maryland,
17 shall prepare for publication reports of cases decided in the Supreme Court of Maryland
18 and in the Appellate Court of Maryland and designated for publication by the respective
19 courts.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0787*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 787

(B)1 The clerk of each appellate court shall deliver to the Reporter accurate copies
[his] CLERK’S2 of the opinions designated for publication by court.THE

(C)3 The opinion in each case shall be published within six months of the decision
4 in the case.

(D)5 The Reporter, in the usual manner of authors, shall superintend the
[and6 proofreading, correction, and publication of the reports secure copyright for the State
property].7 of Maryland as its

(E)8 The Reporter shall have the sum for clerical assistance provided in the State
9 budget.

10 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
11 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.