PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 716

C9 (5lr0149)
ENROLLED BILL
— Environment and Transportation/Education, Energy, and the Environment —
Introduced by Chair, Environment and Transportation Committee (By Request –
Departmental – Housing and Community Development)

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Housing and Community Development – Statewide Rental Assistance Voucher
3 Program Eligibility – Alterations

4 FOR the purpose of including the Department of Housing and Community Development in
5 the definition of “public housing agency” for the purpose of certain provisions of law
6 relating to the Statewide Rental Assistance Voucher Program; authorizing a public
7 housing agency to administer the Program in accordance with a local administrative
8 plan; authorizing the Department to project–base up to a certain amount of its
9 authorized voucher units; altering the manner in which the Department and each
10 public housing agency shall prioritize vouchers and housing assistance payments for
11 certain families; ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~percentage~~ ~~of~~ ~~monthly~~ ~~adjusted~~ ~~gross~~ ~~income~~ ~~for~~ ~~rent~~
12 ~~and~~ ~~utilities~~ ~~a~~ ~~family~~ ~~assisted~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~Program~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~expected~~ ~~to~~ ~~pay;~~ altering
13 the time at which the Department or a public housing agency shall make a certain
14 determination; altering certain inspection schedule and standard requirements;

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0716*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 716

1 altering the amount the Department shall issue to each public housing agency each
2 year for certain purposes; and generally relating to the Statewide Rental Assistance
3 Voucher Program.

4 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
5 Article – Housing and Community Development
6 Section 4–2901(a) and 4–2902
7 Annotated Code of Maryland
8 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Housing and Community Development
11 Section 4–2901(i), ~~4–2904(a)~~ 4–2904, 4–2906, 4–2908(b), 4–2911, and 4–2919
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Housing and Community Development

17 4–2901.

18 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

[(1)]19 (i) “Public housing agency” means an entity authorized by the U.S.
20 Department of Housing and Urban Development to administer the federal Housing Choice
21 Voucher Program in the State.

[(2) Department.]22 “Public housing agency” does not include the

23 4–2902.

24 There is a Statewide Rental Assistance Voucher Program in the Department.

25 4–2904.

26 (a) (1) In political subdivisions without a local administrator under the federal
27 Housing Choice Voucher Program, the Department shall administer the State Program and
28 issue vouchers and housing assistance payments to assist low–income households that are
29 eligible for but are not currently receiving housing choice vouchers under the federal
30 Housing Choice Voucher Program.

31 (2) In political subdivisions with a public housing agency–administrator
agency:32 under the federal Housing Choice Voucher Program, the public housing

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 716 3

(I)1 shall administer the State Program and issue vouchers and
2 housing assistance payments to assist low–income households that are eligible for but are
3 not currently receiving housing choice vouchers under the federal Housing Choice Voucher
Program;4 AND

(II) MAY, (B) SECTION,5 SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION OF THIS
STATE PROGRAM6 ADMINISTER THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LOCAL
7 AGENCY.ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN OF THE PUBLIC HOUSING

(3) THE DEPARTMENT PROJECT–BASE 100%8 MAY UP TO OF ITS
STATE9 AUTHORIZED VOUCHER UNITS IF NECESSARY TO ADMINISTER THE
PROGRAM,10 INCLUDING IN POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS WITHOUT A LOCAL
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM.11 ADMINISTRATOR UNDER THE FEDERAL

12 (b) Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, the State Program shall be
13 administered in accordance with federal guidelines under the federal Housing Choice
14 Voucher Program.

15 4–2906.

[The each] EACH [equally]16 Department and public housing agency shall prioritize
17 vouchers and housing assistance payments for families that include:

18 (1) a child who is under the age of 18 years;

19 (2) a foster child who is:

20 (i) at least 18 years old; but

21 (ii) under the age of 24 years;

22 (3) a military veteran;

23 (4) an individual experiencing homelessness;

24 (5) a disabled individual; or

25 (6) an elderly individual.

26 4–2908.

27 (b) A family assisted under the State Program shall be expected to pay not more
~~[30%]~~ ~~40%~~28 than of its monthly adjusted gross income for rent and utilities, as determined
[the or]29 by Department the public housing agency AT THE TIME THE FAMILY INITIALLY
STATE PROGRAM,30 RECEIVES ASSISTANCE UNDER THE EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE
HOUSING CHOICE VOUCHER PROGRAM.31 PROVIDED IN THE FEDERAL

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 716

1 4–2911.

[The a] A [annual]2 (a) (1) Department or public housing agency shall conduct
3 inspections of each unit rentedAN INITIAL INSPECTION AND PERIODIC THEREAFTER
4 using housing assistance payments to ensure the continued compliance with federal
24 C.F.R. § 5.703,5 housing quality standards under 24 C.F.R. § 982.401 OR AS
6 APPLICABLE.

[each7 (2) Inspections shall occur on or before the initial lease date and
year]8 thereafterAT LEAST BIENNIALLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PUBLIC HOUSING
AGENCY’S9 PLAN.ADMINISTRATIVE

10 (b) For a unit located in a building with 3 to 49 units, the property owner shall
[the or]11 provide Department the public housing agency with a certificate of occupancy that
12 has been completed within 1 year.

13 (c) For a unit located in a building with 50 units or more, the property owner shall
[the or]14 provide Department the public housing agency with an inspection certificate.

15 4–2919.

16 (a) (1) For fiscal years 2025, 2026, and 2027, the Governor shall include in the
17 annual budget bill an appropriation of $10,000,000 to the Department for the State
18 Program.

19 (2) For fiscal year 2028 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Governor shall
20 include in the annual budget bill an appropriation sufficient to fund at least the same
21 number of vouchers issued in the prior fiscal year.

THE22 (b) ~~Of~~ ~~the~~ ~~amount~~ ~~specified~~ ~~under~~ ~~subsection~~ ~~(a)~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~section,~~ ~~the~~
~~[6%~~23 Department shall distribute THE GREATER OF THE FEDERAL DE MINIMIS RATE OF
AGENCY’S24 THE PUBLIC HOUSING MODIFIED TOTAL DIRECT COSTS AS ESTABLISHED
2 C.F.R. § 200.414(F) 15%25 IN OR OF THE AMOUNT SPECIFIED UNDER SUBSECTION
(A) ~~SECTION]~~ [public agencies]26 each year to housingOF THIS EACH PUBLIC HOUSING
27 AGENCY ~~OR~~ ~~AN~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~EQUAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~DE~~ ~~MINIMIS~~ ~~RATE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~
~~AGENCY’S~~ ~~2~~ ~~C.F.R.~~ ~~§~~28 ~~HOUSING~~ ~~MODIFIED~~ ~~TOTAL~~ ~~DIRECT~~ ~~COSTS~~ ~~AS~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~IN~~
~~200.414(F),~~ ~~GREATER,~~29 to help defray staffing expenses related to the~~WHICHEVER~~ ~~IS~~
30 administration of the federal Housing Choice Voucher Program and the State Program.

31 (c) The Department shall develop a formula for distributing State Program funds
[the and]32 to Department each public housing agency.

33 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
34 October 1, 2025.