PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 775

E5 5lr2148

By: Delegates Otto, Arentz, Arikan, Chisholm, Grammer, M. Morgan, T. Morgan,
Nawrocki, Nkongolo, Szeliga, Valentine, and Wivell
Introduced and read first time: January 29, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Correctional Services – Death of Incarcerated Individual – Notification

3 FOR the purpose of requiring the Commissioner of Correction to notify certain persons
4 whenever an incarcerated individual dies while in the custody of the Division of
5 Correction; requiring the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services to
6 adopt certain regulations; and generally relating to deaths of incarcerated
7 individuals.

8 BY adding to
9 Article – Correctional Services
10 Section 9–602.2
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
14 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

15 Article – Correctional Services

9–602.2.16

(A) WHENEVER DIVISION17 AN INCARCERATED INDIVIDUAL DIES IN A OF
CORRECTION FACILITY, COMMISSIONER CORRECTION18 THE OF SHALL NOTIFY THE
PERSONS:19 FOLLOWING

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0775*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 775

(1) STATE STATE1 THE DELEGATES AND SENATOR REPRESENTING
LOCATED;2 THE LEGISLATIVE DISTRICT WHERE THE FACILITY IS

(2)3 THE LEGISLATIVE BODY OF THE COUNTY WHERE THE FACILITY IS
BALTIMORE CITY COUNCIL,4 LOCATED OR THE IF THE FACILITY IS LOCATED IN
BALTIMORE CITY;5 AND

(3)6 THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF THE COUNTY WHERE THE FACILITY IS
MAYOR BALTIMORE CITY,7 LOCATED OR THE OF IF THE FACILITY IS LOCATED IN
BALTIMORE CITY.8

(B) THE (A)9 NOTIFICATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION:10

(1)11 SHALL INCLUDE THE CAUSE OF DEATH OF THE DECEASED
INDIVIDUAL;12 INCARCERATED AND

(2)13 MAY NOT INCLUDE PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION OF THE
INDIVIDUAL.14 DECEASED INCARCERATED

(C) THE DEPARTMENT15 SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS COMPLIANT WITH THE
HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY ACCOUNTABILITY ACT16 FEDERAL AND TO
SECTION.17 IMPLEMENT THIS

18 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
19 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.