PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 754

A2 5lr1464
CF SB 744

By: Harford County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Harford County – Alcoholic Beverages – Hearing Notice

3 FOR the purpose of altering certain notice requirements before the Board of License
4 Commissioners for Harford County may hold public hearings on proposed regulatory
5 changes or license applications; providing that the Board may publish a decision on
6 certain license applications either in certain newspapers or on its website; and
7 generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Harford County.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
9 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
10 Section 4–202(a), (d), and (e), 4–208, 22–102, and 22–1501(b)(4)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2024 Replacement Volume)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
14 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
15 Section 22–209 and 22–1505
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2024 Replacement Volume)

18 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
19 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

20 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0754*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 754

1 4–202.

2 (a) A local licensing board is authorized to issue licenses in its jurisdiction.

3 (d) A local licensing board by regulation may:

4 (1) restrict, in accordance with a definite standard, the number of licenses
5 that the local licensing board considers sufficient for a neighborhood;

6 (2) regulate the use of mechanical music boxes and other sound–making
7 devices;

8 (3) divide a municipality or county into districts; and

9 (4) establish areas in which a license may not be issued.

10 (e) An applicant for a license or a license holder who is aggrieved by a regulation
11 adopted under this section may seek judicial review as provided in Subtitle 9 of this title.

12 4–208.

13 (a) Before a local licensing board may approve an application for a license, the
14 local licensing board shall publish notice of the application two times in 2 successive weeks:

15 (1) in two newspapers of general circulation in the jurisdiction; or

16 (2) if only one newspaper of general circulation exists in the jurisdiction, in
17 that newspaper.

18 (b) The notice shall state:

19 (1) the name of the applicant;

20 (2) the type of license for which the application is made;

21 (3) the location described in the application; and

22 (4) the date, time, and place set by the local licensing board for a hearing
23 on the application.

24 22–102.

25 This title applies only in Harford County.

26 22–209.

27 (a) The Board may adopt regulations to carry out this article.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 754 3

1 (b) (1) The Board shall hold public hearings on all proposed alterations of its
2 regulations.

[The at] AT3 (2) hearings shall be advertised least 2 consecutive weeks
hearings, BOARD4 before the scheduled public SHALL:THE

5 (i) in at least one newspaperADVERTISE THE PUBLIC HEARINGS
[and]6 of general circulation published in the county; OR

[on Board]7 (ii) the website of the POST NOTICE OF THE PUBLIC
8 ONLINE.HEARINGS

9 22–1501.

10 (b) The following sections of Title 4, Subtitle 2 (“Issuance or Denial of Local
11 Licenses”) of Division I of this article apply in the county:

12 (4) § 4–208 (“Notice of license application required”), subject to § 22–1505
13 of this subtitle;

14 22–1505.

15 (a) Before holding a hearing for an application for a license, the Board shall
[publish weeks]:16 notice of the application two times in 2 successive

217 (1) PUBLISH NOTICE OF THE APPLICATION TWO TIMES IN
18 in one newspaper of general circulation published in the county;SUCCESSIVE WEEKS
[and]19 OR

[on website]20 (2) the Board’s POST NOTICE OF THE APPLICATION
1421 DATE.HEARING ONLINE AT LEAST DAYS BEFORE THE APPLICATION HEARING

22 (b) (1) For a hearing for an application for a new license or an upgrade to an
23 existing license, the Board shall post a notice in a conspicuous location on the exterior of
24 the location described in the application.

25 (2) The notice shall be on a sign that measures at least 12 by 18 inches and
26 include:

27 (i) the class of license for which application is made;

28 (ii) the name of the applicant; and

29 (iii) the date, time, and location for the application hearing.

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 754

1 (3) The notice shall remain posted for 20 days before the hearing.

2 (c) (1) The Board shall publish its decision on an application for a new license,
3 an upgrade of an existing license, or a change of location of an existing license:

4 (i) in one newspaper of general circulation published in the county;
[and]5 OR

6 (ii) on the Board’s website.

7 (2) The decision shall state the name of the license holder, the type of
8 license, and the location of the premises.

9 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
10 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.