PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 814

E3 5lr2857

By: Delegate Taylor
Introduced and read first time: January 29, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Department of Juvenile Services – Report on Youth Service Bureaus

3 FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Juvenile Services to submit a report
4 regarding youth service bureaus on or before a certain date each year; and generally
5 relating to the Department of Juvenile Services and youth service bureaus.

6 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
7 Article – Human Services
8 Section 9–101(a) and (b)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 BY adding to
12 Article – Human Services
13 Section 9–224
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
17 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

18 Article – Human Services

19 9–101.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0814*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 814

1 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

2 (b) “Department” means the Department of Juvenile Services.

9–224.3

ON OCTOBER 1, 2025, OCTOBER 1 THEREAFTER,4 OR BEFORE AND EACH THE
DEPARTMENT SENATE JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS5 SHALL REPORT TO THE
COMMITTEE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE, §6 AND THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, ON:7 OF THE

(1) DEPARTMENT8 EFFORTS BY THE TO PROMOTE PREDELINQUENT
PROGRAMS, BUREAUS;9 INCLUDING YOUTH SERVICE

(2) DEPARTMENT10 EFFORTS BY THE TO COLLABORATE WITH AND
11 PROVIDE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS REGARDING THE
ESTABLISHMENT, USE, BUREAUS;12 AND FUNDING OF YOUTH SERVICE

(3)13 AN ASSESSMENT OF THE PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED
BUREAUS;14 BY YOUTH SERVICE AND

(4) OFFENSES.15 ANY OTHER EFFORTS TO PREVENT YOUTH

16 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
17 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.