START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 840

F2 5lr2615
SB 741/24 – EEE CF SB 511

By: Delegates McCaskill, Addison, Hill, Kaiser, ~~McComas,~~ Palakovich Carr, Ruth,
~~Tomlinson,~~ and Woods
Introduced and read first time: January 29, 2025
Assigned to: Appropriations

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 4, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Public Senior Higher Education Institutions – Pregnant and Parenting
3 Students – Plan Requirements
4 (Pregnant and Parenting Student Support Act)

5 FOR the purpose of requiring certain public senior higher education institutions to adopt a
6 plan regarding pregnant and parenting students using certain guidelines; requiring
7 each public senior higher education institution to post the plan on the institution’s
8 website; and generally relating to pregnant and parenting students and certain
9 public senior higher education institutions.

10 BY adding to
11 Article – Education
12 Section 15–140
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

15 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
16 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

17 Article – Education

18 15–140.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0840*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 840

1 (A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
2 INDICATED.

3 (2) “PREGNANT AND PARENTING STUDENT” MEANS A STUDENT
4 ENROLLED AT A PUBLIC SENIOR HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION WHO:

5 (I) IS PREGNANT; OR

6 (II) EXERCISES CARE, CUSTODY, OR CONTROL OVER A CHILD.

7 (3) (I) “PUBLIC SENIOR HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION”
8 MEANS:

9 1. THE CONSTITUENT INSTITUTIONS OF THE
10 UNIVERSITY SYSTEM OF MARYLAND;

11 2. MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY; AND

12 3. ST. MARY’S COLLEGE OF MARYLAND.

13 (II) “PUBLIC SENIOR HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION” DOES
14 NOT INCLUDE:

15 1. THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND CENTER FOR
16 ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES;

17 2. THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND GLOBAL CAMPUS;
18 OR

19 3. THE UNIVERSITY OF BALTIMORE.

20 (B) THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY FINDS THAT ALL STUDENTS AT AN
21 INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN THE STATE, REGARDLESS OF THEIR
22 GENDER, SHALL ENJOY FREEDOM FROM DISCRIMINATION OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING
23 PREGNANCY DISCRIMINATION AS DESCRIBED IN TITLE IX OF THE EDUCATION
24 AMENDMENTS OF 1972.

25 (C) (1) EACH PUBLIC SENIOR HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION SHALL
26 ADOPT A PLAN REGARDING PREGNANT AND PARENTING STUDENTS THAT IS
27 CONSISTENT WITH TITLE IX OF THE FEDERAL HIGHER EDUCATION ACT.

28 (2) THE PLAN REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS
29 SUBSECTION SHALL INCLUDE:
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 840 3

1 (I) REFERRAL TO ON–CAMPUS OR OFF–CAMPUS SERVICES TO
2 ASSIST REGARDING THE AVAILABILITY OF OR ELIGIBILITY FOR GOVERNMENT
3 ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS, INCLUDING:

4 1. THE SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION
5 ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN;

6 2. THE CHILD CARE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM;

7 3. THE MARYLAND MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM;

8 4. THE MARYLAND CHILDREN’S HEALTH INSURANCE
9 PROGRAM; AND

10 5. ANY OTHER PROGRAMS, SCHOLARSHIPS, OR
11 SUBSIDIES FOR PREGNANT AND PARENTING STUDENTS;

12 (II) THE PROVISION OF INFORMATION ABOUT OR REFERRALS
13 TO RESOURCES REGARDING ADOPTION SERVICES;

14 (III) THE AVAILABILITY OF INSTITUTIONAL ACCOMMODATIONS
15 FOR PREGNANT AND PARENTING STUDENTS, INCLUDING PRIORITY CLASS
16 REGISTRATION AND FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING OPTIONS; AND

17 (IV) A REFERRAL NETWORK OF ON–CAMPUS AND OFF–CAMPUS
18 HEALTH CARE SERVICE PROVIDERS.

19 (D) ON OR BEFORE AUGUST 1, 2026, EACH PUBLIC SENIOR HIGHER
20 EDUCATION INSTITUTION SHALL POST THE PLAN ADOPTED UNDER SUBSECTION (C)
21 OF THIS SECTION ON THE INSTITUTION’S WEBSITE.

22 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
23 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 3