START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 861

C5 (5lr1856)
ENROLLED BILL
— Economic Matters/Finance —
Introduced by Delegate Stewart

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Transportation Network Companies – ~~Itemized~~ ~~Receipts~~ Weekly Fare and
3 Earnings Summary and Operator Data Reporting

4 FOR the purpose of requiring a transportation network company to provide ~~an~~ each
5 operator ~~and~~ ~~a~~ ~~passenger~~ ~~an~~ ~~itemized~~ ~~digital~~ ~~receipt~~ ~~that~~ ~~contains~~ ~~certain~~
6 ~~information~~ ~~as~~ ~~soon~~ ~~as~~ ~~practicable~~ ~~after~~ ~~the~~ ~~operator~~ ~~provides~~ ~~transportation~~
7 ~~network~~ ~~services~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~passenger~~ with a weekly fare and earnings summary;
8 requiring a transportation network company to report, on or before a certain date
9 each year, certain information to the Public Service Commission; and generally
10 relating to transportation network companies.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
12 Article – Public Utilities
13 Section 10–101(a), (l), (m), and (n) and 10–401(a) and (c)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0861*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 861

1 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

2 BY adding to
3 Article – Public Utilities
4 Section 10–403.2 and 10–409
5 Annotated Code of Maryland
6 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

7 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
8 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

9 Article – Public Utilities

10 10–101.

11 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

12 (l) “Transportation network company” means a company that operates in the
13 State using a digital network to connect passengers to transportation network operators or
14 transportation network partners for transportation network services.

15 (m) “Transportation network operator”, “transportation network partner”, or
16 “transportation network driver” means an individual who:

17 (1) has been issued a transportation network operator’s license, or is
18 otherwise authorized, by the Commission to provide transportation network services;

19 (2) receives, through a transportation network company’s digital network
20 application, a connection to a potential passenger to transport the passenger between
21 points chosen by the passenger in exchange for the payment of a fee to the transportation
22 network company; and

23 (3) uses a motor vehicle that is owned, leased, or otherwise authorized for
24 use by the individual and is approved for use in providing transportation network services
25 by the Commission.

26 (n) (1) “Transportation network services” means the activities of an operator
27 during:

28 (i) transportation network coverage period one, during which the
29 operator is logged onto and ready to accept a prearranged ride request made through a
30 transportation network company’s digital network application;

31 (ii) transportation network coverage period two, during which the
32 operator accepts a ride request from a passenger that is prearranged through a
33 transportation network company’s digital network application, and is traveling to a
34 predetermined location to pick up the passenger; and
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 861 3

1 (iii) transportation network coverage period three, during which the
2 operator transports the passenger and continuing until the passenger departs the motor
3 vehicle.

4 (2) “Transportation network services” does not include:

5 (i) providing taxicab services, sedan services, or limousine services;

6 (ii) any shared expense carpool arrangement or service or other type
7 of arrangement or service in which a driver receives a fee that does not exceed the driver’s
8 costs associated with providing a ride; or

9 (iii) transportation services that a nonprofit organization provides
10 through the use of a volunteer driver and the volunteer driver’s personal vehicle.

11 10–401.

12 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

13 (c) “Operator” means a transportation network operator, transportation network
14 partner, or transportation network driver.

15 10–403.2.

16 (A) A TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY SHALL PROVIDE EACH
17 OPERATOR WITH A WEEKLY FARE AND EARNINGS SUMMARY THAT INCLUDES:

18 (1) THE TOTAL FARES COLLECTED BY THE OPERATOR
19 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY FOR THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
20 SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY’S OPERATORS IN A GIVEN WEEK;

21 (2) THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF ANY ADDITIONAL FEES THAT WERE
22 CHARGED TO PASSENGERS BY THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY FOR THE
23 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY’S OPERATORS
24 IN A GIVEN WEEK;

25 (2) (3) THE TOTAL AMOUNT THE OPERATOR EARNED THAT WEEK;
26 AND

27 (3) (4) THE TOTAL AMOUNT THE OPERATOR EARNED FROM THE
28 TOTAL FARES COLLECTED THAT WEEK, EXPRESSED AS A PERCENTAGE OF THE
29 TOTAL FARES COLLECTED; AND
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 861

1 (5) THE TOTAL AMOUNT THE OPERATOR EARNED FROM THE
2 ADDITIONAL FEES SPECIFIED IN ITEM (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION THAT WERE
3 COLLECTED THAT WEEK, EXPRESSED AS A PERCENTAGE OF THE TOTAL ADDITIONAL
4 FEES CHARGED.

5 (B) A TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY MAY INCLUDE IN THE WEEKLY
6 FARE AND EARNINGS SUMMARY REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS
7 SECTION:

8 (1) ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THE COMPANY CONSIDERS
9 APPROPRIATE; OR

10 (2) AMOUNTS EARNED BY AN OPERATOR OTHER THAN AMOUNTS
11 EARNED FROM PROVIDING TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES.

12 (A) AS SOON AS PRACTICABLE AFTER AN OPERATOR PROVIDES
13 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES TO A PASSENGER, A TRANSPORTATION
14 NETWORK COMPANY SHALL PROVIDE THE OPERATOR AND PASSENGER ACCESS TO
15 AN ITEMIZED DIGITAL RECEIPT THAT INCLUDES:

16 (1) THE AMOUNT THAT THE PASSENGER PAID FOR THE
17 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES;

18 (2) THE AMOUNT THAT THE OPERATOR WILL RECEIVE FROM THE
19 AMOUNT PAID UNDER ITEM (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION; AND

20 (3) THE FINAL AMOUNT OF ANY ADDITIONAL FEES THAT ARE
21 CHARGED TO THE PASSENGER BY THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY.

22 (B) THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY SHALL MAKE THE RECEIPT
23 REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION AVAILABLE TO THE OPERATOR
24 ON THE COMPANY’S DIGITAL NETWORK APPLICATION.

25 10–409.

26 (A) (1) ON OR BEFORE FEBRUARY 1 EACH YEAR, A TRANSPORTATION
27 NETWORK COMPANY SHALL REPORT TO THE COMMISSION THE FOLLOWING
28 INFORMATION IN AN AGGREGATED FORMAT FOR THE PRIOR YEAR:

29 (1) THE AVERAGE FARE COLLECTED FROM PASSENGERS IN THE
30 STATE;
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 861 5

1 (2) THE TOTAL TIME DRIVEN BY OPERATORS WHILE PROVIDING
2 IN–STATE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES IN THE STATE FOR THE
3 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY; AND

4 (3) THE TOTAL AMOUNT EARNED BY OPERATORS FOR PROVIDING
5 IN–STATE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES IN THE STATE FOR THE
6 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY.

7 (B) ANY INFORMATION OBTAINED BY THE COMMISSION UNDER THIS
8 SECTION THAT IS NOT OTHERWISE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE:

9 (1) IS CONSIDERED:

10 (I) A TRADE SECRET; AND

11 (II) CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION; AND

12 (2) IS NOT SUBJECT TO DISCLOSURE UNDER THE PUBLIC
13 INFORMATION ACT.

14 (C) THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION MAY
15 BE MADE AVAILABLE TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY ON REQUEST, PROVIDED THAT
16 THE REPORT REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL AND EXEMPT FROM PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.

17 (I) THE TOTAL NUMBER OF OPERATORS THAT:

18 1. WERE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT PASSENGERS
19 USING THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY’S DIGITAL NETWORK
20 APPLICATION;

21 2. PROVIDED TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES
22 FOR THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY ON A FULL–TIME OR PART–TIME
23 BASIS; AND

24 3. PROVIDED MORE THAN 40 HOURS OF
25 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICES FOR THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
26 COMPANY EACH WEEK;

27 (II) THE MEDIAN AMOUNT PAID TO THE TRANSPORTATION
28 NETWORK COMPANY’S OPERATORS; AND

29 (III) DEMOGRAPHIC DATA FOR THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
30 COMPANY’S OPERATORS, INCLUDING DEMOGRAPHIC DATA FOR OPERATORS WHO
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 861

1 HAVE BEEN PERMANENTLY DEACTIVATED BY THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
2 COMPANY.

3 (2) THE COMMISSION SHALL DETERMINE THE FORM AND CONTENT
4 OF THE DEMOGRAPHIC DATA REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH (1)(III) OF THIS
5 SUBSECTION.

6 (B) ON OR BEFORE MARCH 1 EACH YEAR, THE COMMISSION SHALL
7 COMPILE THE INFORMATION PROVIDED UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION
8 AND REPORT THE INFORMATION TO THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION AND,
9 IN ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, THE
10 SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE AND THE HOUSE ENVIRONMENT AND
11 TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE.

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
13 ~~October~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025~~ January 1, 2026.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 6