PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 857

M2 5lr2351
CF SB 100

By: Delegates Hornberger, Arentz, Arikan, Beauchamp, Chisholm, Grammer,
Griffith, Hutchinson, Jacobs, T. Morgan, Nawrocki, Otto, Pippy, Schmidt,
Szeliga, ~~and~~ ~~Valentine~~ Valentine, Allen, Behler, Boyce, J. Long, Stewart,
and Ziegler
Introduced and read first time: January 30, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 25, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Natural Resources – Pursuing Wounded Deer After Legal Hunting Hours and
3 Using a Light – Authorization

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing a person who is authorized by the Department of Natural
5 Resources to hunt deer and who wounds a deer during legal hunting hours to pursue
6 and kill the deer after legal hunting hours subject to certain restrictions and with
7 the use of a light; and generally relating to deer hunting.

8 BY adding to
9 Article – Natural Resources
10 Section 10–428
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
14 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

15 Article – Natural Resources

10–428.16

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0857*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 857

(A) SUBJECT (B)1 TO SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION AND NOTWITHSTANDING
§ 10–410(A) (B) SUBTITLE,2 THE TIME RESTRICTIONS UNDER AND OF THIS A PERSON
DEPARTMENT3 WHO IS AUTHORIZED BY THE TO HUNT DEER AND WHO WOUNDS A
4 DEER DURING LEGAL HUNTING HOURS MAY PURSUE AND KILL THE DEER AFTER
HOURS.5 LEGAL HUNTING

(B) (1) ~~A~~ SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,6 TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A PERSON
(A)7 WHO PURSUES A WOUNDED DEER IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS
8 SECTION SHALL USE ONLY THE MEANS AUTHORIZED FOR THE APPLICABLE HUNTING
DEER.9 SEASON OR PERMIT TO KILL THE

(2) NOTWITHSTANDING §§ 10–410(E)10 THE RESTRICTIONS UNDER AND
10–416(C) SUBTITLE,11 OF THIS A PERSON WHO PURSUES A WOUNDED DEER IN
(A)12 ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION MAY USE A LIGHT OR THROW
SPOTLIGHT, HEADLIGHT, LIGHT,13 OR CAST THE RAYS OF A A AN ARTIFICIAL A
BATTERY, DEER.14 OR ANY OTHER DEVICE WHILE PURSUING THE WOUNDED

(C) THE DEPARTMENT15 SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THIS
SECTION.16

17 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
18 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.