PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 929

D4 5lr3158
CF SB 721

By: Delegates Simpson, Bouchat, Crutchfield, Fair, Tomlinson, and Williams
Introduced and read first time: January 31, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 25, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Family Law – Permanent Protective Orders – Consent

3 FOR the purpose of specifying that an individual may consent to the issuance of a
4 permanent protective order against the individual; and generally relating to
5 permanent protective orders.

6 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
7 Article – Family Law
8 Section 4–506(k)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
12 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

13 Article – Family Law

14 4–506.

15 (k) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the court shall
16 issue a permanent protective order under this subsection against an individual if:

17 (i) an interim, temporary, or final protective order has been issued
18 under this subtitle against the individual;

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0929*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 929

1 (ii) 1. the individual was convicted and sentenced to serve a term
2 of imprisonment of at least 5 years for the act of abuse that led to the issuance of the
3 interim, temporary, or final protective order and the individual has served at least 12
[or]4 months of the sentence;

5 2. A. during the term of the interim, temporary, or final
6 protective order, the individual committed an act of abuse against the person eligible for
7 relief; and

8 B. the individual was convicted and sentenced to serve a term
9 of imprisonment of at least 5 years for the act and has served at least 12 months of the
[and]10 sentence; OR

3.11 THE INDIVIDUAL CONSENTS TO THE ISSUANCE OF THE
ORDER;12 PERMANENT PROTECTIVE AND

13 (iii) the victim of the act of abuse described in item (ii)1 or 2 of this
14 paragraph, who was the person eligible for relief in the interim, temporary, or final
15 protective order, requests the issuance of a permanent protective order under this
16 subsection.

17 (2) In a permanent protective order issued under this subsection, the court
18 may grant only the relief that was granted in the original protective order under §
19 4–504.1(c)(1) or (2) or § 4–505(a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this subtitle or subsection (d)(1) or (2) of this
20 section.

21 (3) Unless terminated at the request of the victim, a protective order issued
22 under this subsection shall be permanent.

23 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
24 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.