PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 943

E1 5lr2789
SB 435/24 – JPR CF SB 334

By: Delegate Toles
Introduced and read first time: January 31, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 25, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Criminal Law – Crimes of Malicious or Fraudulent Burning – Prohibitions and
3 Penalties

4 FOR the purpose of prohibiting a person from committing a certain crime of malicious or
5 fraudulent burning that results in the death of or serious physical injury to a
6 firefighter; and generally relating to crimes of malicious or fraudulent burning.

7 BY adding to
8 Article – Criminal Law
9 Section 6–112
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Criminal Law

6–112.15

(A) (1) IN16 THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.17

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0943*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 943

(2) “CRIME BURNING”1 OF MALICIOUS OR FRAUDULENT MEANS A
§ 6–104, § 6–105, § 6–106 SUBTITLE.2 VIOLATION OF OR OF THIS

(3) “SERIOUS INJURY” §3 PHYSICAL HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
3–201 ARTICLE.4 OF THIS

(B) A5 PERSON MAY NOT COMMIT A CRIME OF MALICIOUS OR FRAUDULENT
6 BURNING THAT RESULTS IN THE DEATH OF OR SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY TO A
FIREFIGHTER.7

(C) A8 PERSON WHO VIOLATES THIS SECTION IS GUILTY OF A FELONY AND
10 YEARS.9 ON CONVICTION IS SUBJECT TO IMPRISONMENT NOT EXCEEDING

(D) A10 SENTENCE IMPOSED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY BE SEPARATE FROM
11 AND CONSECUTIVE TO OR CONCURRENT WITH A SENTENCE IMPOSED FOR ANY
SECTION.12 CRIME BASED ON THE ACT ESTABLISHING THE VIOLATION OF THIS

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
14 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.