PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 936

J5 5lr1940

By: Delegates Shetty, Forbes, D. Jones, Kaufman, J. Lewis, McCaskill, Smith,
Solomon, ~~and~~ ~~Watson~~ Watson, Bagnall, Bhandari, Chisholm, Cullison,
Guzzone, Hill, Hutchinson, S. Johnson, Kaiser, Kerr, Kipke, Lopez,
Martinez, Pena–Melnyk, Reilly, Rosenberg, Szeliga, Taveras,
White Holland, Woods, and Woorman
Introduced and read first time: January 31, 2025
Assigned to: Health and Government Operations

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 25, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Health Insurance – Cancellation and Nonrenewal of Coverage – Required Notice

3 FOR the purpose of requiring that a carrier provide ~~the~~ notice by certain electronic means,
4 in addition to written notice, of cancellation or nonrenewal of a small group market
5 health benefit plan ~~by~~ ~~certified~~ ~~mail,~~ ~~return~~ ~~receipt~~ ~~requested,~~ ~~and~~ ~~by~~ ~~electronic~~
6 ~~means~~ and include information regarding additional health benefit coverage options
7 in the notice; and generally relating to cancellation and nonrenewal of health benefit
8 plans in the State.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
10 Article – Insurance
11 Section 15–1212(h)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
15 Article – Insurance
16 Section 15–1212(i)
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb0936*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 936

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Insurance

4 15–1212.

5 (h) When a carrier elects not to renew a particular product for all small employers
6 in the State, the carrier shall:

7 (1) provide notice of the nonrenewal at least 90 days before the date of the
8 nonrenewal to:

9 (i) each affected:

10 1. small employer; and

11 2. enrolled employee; and

12 (ii) the Commissioner;

13 (2) offer to each affected small employer the option to purchase all other
14 health benefit plans currently offered by the carrier in the small group market; and

15 (3) act uniformly without regard to the claims experience of any affected
16 small employer, or any health status–related factor of any affected individual.

(1)17 (i) Within 7 days after cancellation or nonrenewal of a health benefit plan,
employee:18 the carrier shall send to each enrolled

(I) ~~MAIL,~~19 written notice of its action ~~BY~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~RETURN~~
~~REQUESTED;~~20 ~~RECEIPT~~ AND

(II)21 NOTICE DELIVERED BY ELECTRONIC MEANS THAT
§ 27–601.222 ARTICLE.COMPLIES WITH OF THIS

(2) THE (1)23 NOTICE REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
24 SUBSECTION SHALL INCLUDE INFORMATION ON ADDITIONAL HEALTH BENEFIT
OPTIONS,25 COVERAGE INCLUDING CONTINUATION OF COVERAGE THROUGH THE
CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (COBRA),26 IF
AVAILABLE, MARYLAND HEALTH BENEFIT27 AND PLANS AVAILABLE THROUGH THE
EXCHANGE.28

29 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall apply to all
30 policies, contracts, and health benefit plans issued, delivered, or renewed in the State on or
31 after January 1, 2026.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 936 3

1 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
2 ~~July~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025~~ January 1, 2026.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.