START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 983

G1 (5lr2170)
ENROLLED BILL
— Ways and Means/Education, Energy, and the Environment —
Introduced by Delegates Mireku–North and Wilkins

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Election Law – Local Boards of Elections – ~~Language–Related~~ ~~Assistance~~
3 Language Assistance Program

4 FOR the purpose of ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Board~~ ~~of~~ ~~Elections~~ ~~to~~ ~~determine~~ ~~whether~~ ~~there~~ ~~is~~ ~~a~~
5 ~~significant~~ ~~and~~ ~~substantial~~ ~~need~~ ~~for~~ ~~language–related~~ ~~assistance~~ ~~in~~ ~~certain~~
6 ~~languages~~ ~~by~~ ~~a~~ ~~local~~ ~~board~~ ~~of~~ ~~elections~~ ~~during~~ ~~an~~ ~~election~~ ~~based~~ ~~on~~ ~~certain~~ ~~criteria;~~
7 ~~requiring~~ ~~local~~ ~~boards~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~certain~~ ~~language–related~~ ~~assistance~~ ~~and~~ ~~materials~~
8 ~~in~~ ~~voting~~ ~~and~~ ~~elections~~ ~~to~~ ~~certain~~ ~~voters~~ ~~in~~ ~~certain~~ ~~languages;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~local~~ ~~boards~~
9 ~~to~~ ~~make~~ ~~reasonable~~ ~~efforts~~ ~~to~~ ~~recruit~~ ~~election~~ ~~judges~~ ~~who~~ ~~are~~ ~~fluent~~ ~~in~~ ~~certain~~
10 ~~languages;~~ ~~and~~ ~~generally~~ ~~relating~~ ~~to~~ ~~language–related~~ ~~assistance~~ establishing the
11 Language Assistance Program; requiring a local board of elections to participate in
12 the Program if the State Board determines that there is a significant need for
13 language assistance to voters in the county in a language other than English;
14 requiring the State Board to designate, not later than a certain date, certain
15 languages other than English in which a local board that is required to participate

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb0983*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 983

1 in the Program must provide assistance to voters; requiring a local board that is
2 required to participate in the Program to provide, with ~~the~~ ~~assistance~~ ~~of~~ oversight
3 from the State Board, certain language–related services to voters; and generally
4 relating to the Language Assistance Program.

5 BY adding to
6 Article – Election Law
7 Section 15.5–101 through ~~15.5–106~~ 15.5–104 to be under the new title “Title 15.5.
8 ~~Language–Related~~ ~~Assistance~~ Language Assistance Program”
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
12 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

13 Article – Election Law

14 TITLE 15.5. LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE
15 PROGRAM.

16 15.5–101.

17 (A) IN THIS TITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
18 INDICATED.

19 (B) “DESIGNATED LANGUAGE” MEANS A LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH
20 IN WHICH THE STATE BOARD DETERMINES A LOCAL BOARD IS REQUIRED TO
21 PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO VOTERS UNDER THIS TITLE.

22 (C) “LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY” MEANS THAT AN INDIVIDUAL:

23 (1) SPEAKS A PARTICULAR LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH;

24 (2) DOES NOT SPEAK ENGLISH AS A PRIMARY LANGUAGE; AND

25 (3) SPEAKS, READS, OR UNDERSTANDS THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
26 LESS THAN “VERY WELL”, AS REPORTED IN AVAILABLE U.S. CENSUS BUREAU DATA
27 OR DATA OF COMPARABLE QUALITY COLLECTED BY A PUBLIC OFFICE.

28 (D) “PROGRAM” MEANS THE LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

29 (E) “VOTING MATERIALS” INCLUDES:

30 (1) VOTER REGISTRATION FORMS STATEWIDE VOTER REGISTRATION
31 APPLICATIONS;
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 983 3

1 (2) ABSENTEE BALLOT APPLICATIONS STATE BOARD APPROVED
2 ABSENTEE BALLOT APPLICATIONS;

3 (3) SPECIMEN BALLOTS; AND

4 (4) FORMS AND INSTRUCTIONS THAT THE STATE BOARD
5 DETERMINES APPROPRIATE TO FACILITATE VOTING NECESSARY TO VOTING.

6 15.5–102.

7 (A) THERE IS A LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

8 (B) A LOCAL BOARD SHALL PARTICIPATE IN THE PROGRAM IF THE STATE
9 BOARD DETERMINES IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION (C) OF THIS SECTION THAT
10 THERE IS A SIGNIFICANT NEED FOR LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE TO VOTERS IN THE
11 COUNTY IN A LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH.

12 (C) THE STATE BOARD SHALL DETERMINE NOT LATER THAN FEBRUARY 1
13 OF THE YEAR OF THE ELECTION THAT A SIGNIFICANT NEED FOR LANGUAGE
14 ASSISTANCE TO VOTERS EXISTS IN A COUNTY IF, BASED ON THE BEST AVAILABLE
15 DATA, INCLUDING INFORMATION FROM THE U.S. CENSUS BUREAU’S AMERICAN
16 COMMUNITY SURVEY OR DATA OF COMPARABLE QUALITY COLLECTED BY A PUBLIC
17 OFFICE:

18 (1) MORE THAN 2% OF THE CITIZEN VOTING AGE POPULATION OF THE
19 COUNTY:

20 (I) USE A SINGLE SHARED LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH;
21 AND

22 (II) HAVE LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY; OR

23 (2) MORE THAN 4,000 INDIVIDUALS OF THE CITIZEN VOTING AGE
24 POPULATION OF THE COUNTY USE A SINGLE SHARED LANGUAGE OTHER THAN
25 ENGLISH AND HAVE LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY.

26 (D) THE STATE BOARD SHALL DETERMINE THAT EACH LANGUAGE OTHER
27 THAN ENGLISH THAT IS USED BY AT LEAST THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS SPECIFIED
28 IN SUBSECTION (C) OF THIS SECTION IS A DESIGNATED LANGUAGE.

29 (E) (1) THE STATE BOARD SHALL PUBLISH AND MAINTAIN ON ITS
30 WEBSITE A LIST OF:
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 983

1 (I) EACH LOCAL BOARD THAT IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE
2 LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE IN A LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH; AND

3 (II) EACH DESIGNATED LANGUAGE IN WHICH THE LANGUAGE
4 ASSISTANCE IS REQUIRED TO BE PROVIDED BY THE LOCAL BOARD.

5 (2) THE STATE BOARD SHALL UPDATE THE INFORMATION
6 PUBLISHED AND MAINTAINED UNDER PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION AT
7 LEAST EVERY 2 YEARS.

8 (F) THE STATE BOARD ADMINISTRATOR SHALL PROMPTLY NOTIFY EACH
9 LOCAL BOARD AND THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF THE COUNTY INCLUDED ON
10 THIS LIST UNDER SUBSECTION (E) OF THIS SECTION OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS
11 TITLE.

12 15.5–103.

13 (A) EACH LOCAL BOARD THAT IS REQUIRED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
14 PROGRAM SHALL, WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF OVERSIGHT FROM THE STATE BOARD,
15 PROVIDE TO VOTERS THE SERVICES DESCRIBED IN THIS SECTION.

16 (B) (1) AT EACH EARLY VOTING CENTER AND ELECTION DAY POLLING
17 PLACE, A VOTER WHO HAS A NEED FOR LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE IN A DESIGNATED
18 LANGUAGE SHALL HAVE THE OPTION TO COMMUNICATE WITH THE ELECTION
19 JUDGES THROUGH A TRANSLATOR WHO IS MADE AVAILABLE BY MEANS OF VIDEO
20 CONFERENCE TECHNOLOGY.

21 (2) THE STATE SHALL PROVIDE TO THE LOCAL BOARDS LICENSED
22 TRANSLATION SOFTWARE SERVICES TO IMPLEMENT THE PROGRAM AND THE
23 COUNTY SHALL PAY FOR ALL OTHER EXPENSES ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM,
24 INCLUDING NECESSARY HARDWARE AND EACH USE OF THE TRANSLATION SOFTWARE
25 SERVICES.

26 (C) SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (E) OF THIS SECTION, THE LOCAL BOARD
27 SHALL POST STATE BOARD APPROVED SIGNAGE IN EACH EARLY VOTING CENTER
28 AND ELECTION DAY POLLING PLACE IN EACH DESIGNATED LANGUAGE NOTIFYING
29 VOTERS THAT LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE AND INTERPRETATION SERVICES ARE
30 AVAILABLE.

31 (D) SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (E) OF THIS SECTION, THE LOCAL BOARD
32 SHALL PROVIDE ONLINE VOTING MATERIALS IN EACH DESIGNATED LANGUAGE.
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 983 5

1 (E) A LOCAL BOARD MAY PROVIDE SOLELY ORAL INSTRUCTIONS OR OTHER
2 ASSISTANCE IF THE LANGUAGE DOES NOT HAVE A WRITTEN FORM, SUCH AS SIGN
3 LANGUAGE AMERICAN SIGN LANGUAGE.

4 (F) THE LOCAL BOARD SHALL MAKE REASONABLE EFFORTS TO RECRUIT
5 BILINGUAL ELECTION JUDGES TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO VOTERS IN DESIGNATED
6 LANGUAGES.

7 (G) THE LOCAL BOARD, WITH STATE BOARD APPROVAL, MAY PROVIDE
8 LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES THAT ARE IN ADDITION TO THE LANGUAGE
9 ASSISTANCE SERVICES REQUIRED IN THIS SECTION.

10 15.5–104.

11 THE STATE BOARD MAY SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS
12 TITLE.

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before January 1, 2026,
14 the State Board of Elections shall publish on its website the information required under §
15 15.5–102(e) of the Election Law Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act.

16 IN THIS TITLE, “LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY” MEANS THAT AN
17 INDIVIDUAL:

18 (1) SPEAKS A PARTICULAR LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH;

19 (2) DOES NOT SPEAK ENGLISH AS A PRIMARY LANGUAGE; AND

20 (3) SPEAKS, READS, OR UNDERSTANDS THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
21 LESS THAN “VERY WELL”, AS REPORTED IN AVAILABLE U.S. CENSUS BUREAU DATA
22 OR DATA OF COMPARABLE QUALITY COLLECTED BY A PUBLIC OFFICE.

23 15.5–102.

24 (A) SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (B) OF THIS SECTION, THE STATE BOARD
25 SHALL DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS A SIGNIFICANT AND SUBSTANTIAL NEED
26 FOR LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE IN ONE OR MORE LANGUAGES OTHER THAN
27 ENGLISH BY A LOCAL BOARD DURING AN ELECTION.

28 (B) THE STATE BOARD SHALL DETERMINE THAT A SIGNIFICANT AND
29 SUBSTANTIAL NEED FOR LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE BY A LOCAL BOARD
30 DURING AN ELECTION EXISTS IN A COUNTY IF, BASED ON THE BEST AVAILABLE
31 DATA, INCLUDING INFORMATION FROM THE U.S. CENSUS BUREAU’S AMERICAN
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 983

1 COMMUNITY SURVEY OR DATA OF COMPARABLE QUALITY COLLECTED BY A PUBLIC
2 OFFICE:

3 (1) MORE THAN 2%, BUT IN NO INSTANCE FEWER THAN 100
4 INDIVIDUALS, OF THE VOTING AGE POPULATION OF THE COUNTY:

5 (I) USE A SINGLE SHARED LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH;
6 AND

7 (II) HAVE LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY; OR

8 (2) MORE THAN 4,000 INDIVIDUALS OF THE VOTING AGE POPULATION
9 OF THE COUNTY USE A SINGLE SHARED LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH AND HAVE
10 LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY.

11 (C) THE STATE BOARD MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS THAT ESTABLISH
12 ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING WHETHER A SIGNIFICANT AND
13 SUBSTANTIAL NEED FOR LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE BY A LOCAL BOARD
14 DURING AN ELECTION EXISTS IN A COUNTY.

15 15.5–103.

16 (A) ON OR BEFORE JANUARY 1, 2026, AND EVERY 2 YEARS THEREAFTER,
17 THE STATE BOARD SHALL PUBLISH AND MAINTAIN ON ITS WEBSITE A LIST OF:

18 (1) EACH LOCAL BOARD THAT IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE
19 LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE IN A LANGUAGE OTHER THAN ENGLISH; AND

20 (2) EACH LANGUAGE IN WHICH THE LANGUAGE–RELATED
21 ASSISTANCE IS REQUIRED TO BE PROVIDED BY THE LOCAL BOARD.

22 (B) THE STATE BOARD SHALL DISTRIBUTE THIS LIST TO EACH LOCAL
23 BOARD IN TIME TO ALLOW LOCAL BOARDS TO PROVIDE LANGUAGE–RELATED
24 ASSISTANCE UNDER § 15.5–104 OF THIS TITLE.

25 15.5–104.

26 (A) A LOCAL BOARD SHALL PROVIDE LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE
27 AND MATERIALS IN VOTING AND ELECTIONS TO VOTERS WHO HAVE LIMITED
28 ENGLISH PROFICIENCY IN EACH LANGUAGE DESIGNATED BY THE STATE BOARD
29 UNDER § 15.5–102 OF THIS TITLE.

30 (B) WHENEVER THE STATE BOARD DETERMINES THAT
31 LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE SHALL BE PROVIDED BY A LOCAL BOARD, THE
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 983 7

1 LOCAL BOARD SHALL PROVIDE COMPETENT ASSISTANCE AND PHYSICAL AND
2 ONLINE VOTING MATERIALS IN EACH DESIGNATED LANGUAGE UNDER § 15.5–102 OF
3 THIS TITLE.

4 (C) (1) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION,
5 FOR EACH DESIGNATED LANGUAGE UNDER § 15.5–102 OF THIS TITLE, THE
6 LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE AND MATERIALS SHALL INCLUDE:

7 (I) TRANSLATED REGISTRATION AND VOTING FORMS AND
8 NOTICES;

9 (II) ELECTION–RELATED MATERIALS;

10 (III) SIGNAGE AT ALL EARLY VOTING CENTERS AND POLLING
11 PLACES IN DESIGNATED LANGUAGES NOTIFYING VOTERS THAT LANGUAGE
12 ASSISTANCE AND TELEPHONE INTERPRETERS ARE AVAILABLE; AND

13 (IV) SAMPLE BALLOTS AND OTHER MATERIALS OR
14 INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ELECTORAL PROCESS.

15 (2) IN THE CASE OF A LANGUAGE THAT IS ORAL OR UNWRITTEN,
16 INCLUDING SIGN LANGUAGE, THE LOCAL BOARD MAY PROVIDE ONLY ORAL
17 INSTRUCTIONS, ASSISTANCE, OR OTHER INFORMATION RELATING TO THE
18 ELECTORAL PROCESS IN THE APPLICABLE LANGUAGE.

19 (D) (1) MATERIALS PROVIDED IN A DESIGNATED LANGUAGE SHALL:

20 (I) BE OF AN EQUAL QUALITY TO THE CORRESPONDING
21 ENGLISH LANGUAGE MATERIALS; AND

22 (II) BE MADE AVAILABLE AT THE SAME TIME AS THE
23 CORRESPONDING ENGLISH LANGUAGE MATERIALS.

24 (2) ALL TRANSLATIONS SHALL CONVEY THE INTENT AND ESSENTIAL
25 MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL TEXT OR COMMUNICATION AND MAY NOT SOLELY RELY
26 ON AUTOMATIC ELECTRONIC TRANSLATION SERVICES, INCLUDING MACHINE
27 TRANSLATION OR OTHER ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE APPLICATIONS.

28 (3) (I) IN ADDITION TO THE OTHER REQUIREMENTS OF THIS
29 SECTION, LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE SHALL INCLUDE THE PRESENCE OF
30 BILINGUAL ELECTION JUDGES WHERE AVAILABLE.

31 (II) A LOCAL BOARD SHALL MAKE REASONABLE EFFORTS TO
32 RECRUIT ELECTION JUDGES WHO ARE FLUENT IN EACH LANGUAGE DESIGNATED BY
END OF PAGE 7

START OF PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 983

1 THE STATE BOARD UNDER § 15.5–102 OF THIS TITLE, INCLUDING BY USING NOTICES
2 IN NEWSPAPERS, RADIO, TELEVISION, AND OTHER FORMS OF MEDIA, WITH A
3 PARTICULAR FOCUS ON MEDIA THAT SERVE NON–ENGLISH–SPEAKING CITIZENS IN
4 THE COUNTY.

5 (III) BILINGUAL ELECTION JUDGES SHALL PROVIDE DIRECT
6 ASSISTANCE TO VOTERS WHO HAVE LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY AND MAY NOT
7 ATTEMPT TO INTERPRET OR TRANSLATE ENGLISH LANGUAGE MATERIALS.

8 (E) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO PREVENT A LOCAL BOARD
9 FROM VOLUNTARILY PROVIDING LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE IN ADDITION TO
10 THE ASSISTANCE REQUIRED BY THIS TITLE.

11 15.5–105.

12 (A) THE STATE BOARD SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS THAT ESTABLISH A
13 REVIEW PROCESS TO DETERMINE WHETHER A SIGNIFICANT AND SUBSTANTIAL
14 NEED EXISTS FOR A LANGUAGE TO BE DESIGNATED UNDER § 15.5–102 OF THIS
15 TITLE.

16 (B) THE PROCESS ESTABLISHED BY THE STATE BOARD UNDER SUBSECTION
17 (A) OF THIS SECTION SHALL INCLUDE, AT MINIMUM:

18 (1) AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE FOLLOWING TO REQUEST THAT THE
19 STATE BOARD CONSIDER DESIGNATING A LANGUAGE UNDER § 15.5–102 OF THIS
20 TITLE:

21 (I) A VOTER;

22 (II) A GROUP OF VOTERS;

23 (III) AN ORGANIZATION WHOSE MEMBERSHIP INCLUDES VOTERS
24 OR IS LIKELY TO INCLUDE VOTERS;

25 (IV) AN ORGANIZATION WHOSE MISSION WOULD BE
26 FRUSTRATED BY A FAILURE TO PROVIDE LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE UNDER
27 THIS TITLE; AND

28 (V) AN ORGANIZATION THAT WOULD EXPEND RESOURCES TO
29 FULFILL THE ORGANIZATION’S MISSION AS A RESULT OF A FAILURE TO PROVIDE
30 LANGUAGE–RELATED ASSISTANCE UNDER THIS TITLE; AND

31 (2) AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
END OF PAGE 8

START OF PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 983 9

1 (C) ON RECEIPT OF A REQUEST AND CONSIDERATION OF ANY PUBLIC
2 COMMENT, THE STATE BOARD SHALL DESIGNATE ANY LANGUAGE FOR WHICH IT
3 DETERMINES THE CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION ARE MET.

4 15.5–106.

5 (A) THE FOLLOWING PERSONS MAY FILE AN ACTION TO ENFORCE THIS
6 TITLE:

7 (1) AN AGGRIEVED PERSON;

8 (2) AN ORGANIZATION WHOSE MEMBERSHIP INCLUDES OR IS LIKELY
9 TO INCLUDE AGGRIEVED PERSONS;

10 (3) AN ORGANIZATION WHOSE MISSION WOULD BE FRUSTRATED BY A
11 VIOLATION OF THIS SECTION;

12 (4) AN ORGANIZATION THAT WOULD EXPEND RESOURCES TO FULFILL
13 ITS MISSION AS A RESULT OF A VIOLATION OF THIS SECTION; OR

14 (5) THE STATE BOARD.

15 (B) (1) IN THE CASE OF A LOCAL BOARD THAT SEEKS TO PROVIDE ONLY
16 ENGLISH LANGUAGE MATERIALS DESPITE A DETERMINATION BY THE STATE BOARD
17 THAT THE LOCAL BOARD IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE LANGUAGE–RELATED
18 ASSISTANCE UNDER THIS TITLE, THE LOCAL BOARD MAY FILE AN ACTION AGAINST
19 THE STATE BOARD SEEKING A DECLARATORY JUDGMENT ALLOWING THE LOCAL
20 BOARD TO PROVIDE ONLY ENGLISH LANGUAGE MATERIALS.

21 (2) THE COURT SHALL ENTER THE DECLARATORY JUDGMENT IN
22 FAVOR OF THE LOCAL BOARD ONLY IF THE COURT FINDS THAT THE DETERMINATION
23 BY THE STATE BOARD WAS ARBITRARY AND CAPRICIOUS OR AN ABUSE OF
24 DISCRETION.

25 (C) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL MAY ISSUE SUBPOENAS AND HOLD
26 FACT–FINDING HEARINGS TO ENFORCE THE PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE.

27 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
28 October 1, 2025.
END OF PAGE 9