PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1026

A2 5lr1770
CF SB 636

By: Frederick County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: February 3, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Frederick County – Alcoholic Beverages – Tasting Permits

3 FOR the purpose of altering in Frederick County the beer and wine consumption permit to
4 be the beer and wine tasting permit and the beer, wine, and liquor consumption
5 permit to be the beer, wine, and liquor tasting permit; altering the amounts of certain
6 alcoholic beverages an individual may taste under the permits; and generally
7 relating to alcoholic beverages in Frederick County.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
9 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
10 Section 20–102
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2024 Replacement Volume)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
14 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
15 Section 20–1102.1 and 20–1102.2
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2024 Replacement Volume)

18 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
19 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

20 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1026*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1026

1 20–102.

2 This title applies only in Frederick County.

3 20–1102.1.

[consumption (BWC)] (BWT)4 (a) There is a beer and wine permit.TASTING

5 (b) The Board may issue the permit to the holder of a Class A license.

[consumption]6 (c) The permit authorizes the holder to allow for on–premises
7 of beer and wine.TASTING

8 (d) (1) An applicant for the permit shall submit to the Board an application on
9 a form that the Board provides.

10 (2) The Board may issue the permit without a public hearing.

11 (3) If an initial permit application is denied, the applicant may request a
12 public hearing before the Board.

13 (4) Renewal of the permit may be made when the license holder’s Class A
14 license is renewed.

[consume]15 (e) An individual may beer or wine covered by the permit in aTASTE
16 quantity not exceeding:

[(1)17 a single serving consisting of:

(i)] (1)18 12 total ounces of beer; or

[(ii)] (2) wine[;19 6 total ounces of or

20 (2) three individual sample servings of beer or wine in any combination,
21 each consisting of not more than:

22 (i) 2 ounces of beer; or

wine].23 (ii) 1 ounce of

(F) THE BOARD REGULATE:24 SHALL

(1) INDIVIDUAL;25 THE QUANTITY OF BEER AND WINE SERVED TO AN
26 AND

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1026 3

(2)1 THE NUMBER OF BOTTLES OR OTHER CONTAINERS FROM WHICH
SERVED.2 THE QUANTITY IS

[(f)] (G) [consumption]3 (1) The permit authorizes the of beer andTASTING
4 wine only on the licensed premises of the holder.

5 (2) The permit holder may not allow an open container to be taken from
6 the licensed premises.

7 (3) The permit holder may not serve open alcoholic beverages from a
8 drive–through window.

[(g)] (H)9 The annual permit fee is $200.

10 20–1102.2.

[consumption (BWLC)] (BWLT)11 (a) There is a beer, wine, and liquor TASTING
12 permit.

13 (b) The Board may issue the permit to the holder of a Class A license.

[consumption]14 (c) The permit authorizes the holder to allow for on–premises
15 of beer, wine, and liquor.TASTING

16 (d) (1) An applicant for the permit shall submit to the Board an application on
17 a form that the Board provides.

18 (2) The Board may issue the permit without a public hearing.

19 (3) If an initial permit application is denied, the applicant may request a
20 public hearing before the Board.

21 (4) Renewal of the permit may be made when the license holder’s Class A
22 license is renewed.

[consume]23 (e) An individual may beer, wine, or liquor covered by theTASTE
24 permit in a quantity not exceeding:

[(1)25 a single serving consisting of:

(i)] (1)26 12 total ounces of beer;

[(ii)] (2)27 6 total ounces of wine; or

[(iii)] (3)28 1.5 total ounces of liquor, which may be mixed with other
beverages[;29 nonalcoholic or

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1026

1 (2) three individual sample servings of beer, wine, or liquor in any
2 combination, each consisting of not more than:

3 (i) 2 ounces of beer;

4 (ii) 1 ounce of wine; or

5 (iii) 0.5 ounce of liquor, which may be mixed with other nonalcoholic
beverages].6

(F) THE BOARD REGULATE:7 SHALL

(1) BEER, WINE,8 THE QUANTITY OF AND LIQUOR THAT MAY BE SERVED
INDIVIDUAL;9 TO AN AND

(2)10 THE NUMBER OF BOTTLES OR OTHER CONTAINERS FROM WHICH
SERVED.11 THE QUANTITY IS

[(f)] (G) [consumption]12 (1) The permit authorizes the of beer, wine,TASTING
13 and liquor only on the licensed premises of the holder.

14 (2) The permit holder may not allow an open container to be taken from
15 the licensed premises.

16 (3) The permit holder may not serve open alcoholic beverages from a
17 drive–through window.

[(g)] (H)18 The annual permit fee is $400.

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
20 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.