PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1095

A2 5lr0880

By: Montgomery County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: February 5, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Montgomery County – Alcoholic Beverages – Beauty Salon and Barbershop
3 License

4 MC 3–25

5 FOR the purpose of expanding eligibility for a certain beauty salon license in Montgomery
6 County to include a holder of a certain barbershop permit; authorizing a holder of ~~a~~
7 ~~beauty~~ ~~salon~~ ~~license~~ ~~in~~ ~~Montgomery~~ ~~County~~ the license to provide a certain amount
8 of liquor for on–premises consumption in addition to beer and wine; altering the
9 amount of beer the holder may provide for on–premises consumption; and generally
10 relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Montgomery County.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
12 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
13 Section 25–102
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2024 Replacement Volume)

16 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
17 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
18 Section 25–1002
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2024 Replacement Volume)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1095*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1095

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

4 25–102.

5 This title applies only in Montgomery County.

6 25–1002.

[and], wine,7 (a) There is a beauty salon beerAND BARBERSHOP AND LIQUOR
8 license.

of:9 (b) The Board may issue the license to a holder

(1)10 a beauty salon permit issued under § 5–501 of the Business Occupations
Article;11 and Professions OR

(2) § 4–501 BUSINESS12 A BARBERSHOP PERMIT ISSUED UNDER OF THE
OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE.13 AND

1214 (c) The license authorizes the license holder to provide not more than OUNCES
BEER, [beer or] [by glass], 1.715 5 ounces of wine the forOF OR OUNCES OF LIQUOR
16 on–premises consumption by a beauty salon customer:OR BARBERSHOP

17 (1) when the customer is provided a cosmetology service under ~~§~~ ~~5–101(n)~~
TITLE 518 of the Business Occupations and Professions Article OR A BARBERING SERVICE
TITLE 4 BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE;19 orUNDER OF THE AND

20 (2) while the customer is attending a fund–raising event at the beauty
21 salon for which the County Department of Permitting Services hasOR BARBERSHOP
22 issued a permit.

23 (d) The license may not be transferred to another location.

[and], wine,24 (e) The license holder may provide beer during normalAND LIQUOR
25 business hours but not later than 9 p.m.

26 (f) An establishment for which the license is issued is subject to the alcohol
27 awareness training requirements under § 4–505 of this article.

28 (g) The annual license fee is $100.

29 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
30 1, 2025.