START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1037

C5, M5 5lr2311
CF SB 909

By: Delegate Crosby
Introduced and read first time: February 5, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 21, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Energy Resource Adequacy and Planning Act

3 FOR the purpose of establishing the ~~Integrated~~ ~~Resource~~ Strategic Energy Planning Office
4 ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~Public~~ ~~Service~~ ~~Commission;~~ requiring the Office to develop a Comprehensive
5 ~~Energy~~ ~~Forecast~~ ~~and~~ ~~conduct~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~study~~ Wholesale Energy Markets and Bulk
6 Power System Risk Report and examine certain scenarios to support the
7 development of the ~~Forecast;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office,~~ ~~in~~ ~~consultation~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~
8 ~~Commission~~ ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Energy~~ ~~Administration,~~ ~~to~~ ~~complete~~ ~~certain~~ ~~energy~~
9 ~~modeling;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Commission,~~ ~~in~~ ~~consultation~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office,~~ ~~to~~ ~~adopt~~
10 ~~regulations~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~each~~ ~~electric~~ ~~company~~ ~~to~~ ~~develop~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~integrated~~ ~~resource~~
11 ~~plan~~ Risk Report; requiring the Office to conduct certain stakeholder processes;
12 requiring the Office to provide certain information to certain persons under certain
13 circumstances; requiring the Public Service Commission to conduct a certain public
14 proceeding; requiring the Commission and the Department of Transportation to
15 complete certain studies; requiring the Maryland Energy Administration to obtain
16 or develop certain power flow analyses; and generally relating to the ~~Integrated~~
17 ~~Resource~~ Strategic Energy Planning Office and energy resource planning.

18 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
19 Article – Public Utilities
20 Section 2–110 and 2–110.1
21 Annotated Code of Maryland
22 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

23 BY adding to

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1037*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 Article – Public Utilities
2 Section 7–1201 through ~~7–1206~~ 7–1207 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 12.
3 ~~Integrated~~ ~~Resource~~ Strategic Energy Planning Office”
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
7 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

8 Article – Public Utilities

9 2–110.

10 (a) In this section, “public service company” includes an electricity supplier and a
11 gas supplier as those terms are defined in § 1–101 of this article.

12 (b) (1) The costs and expenses of the Commission, THE STRATEGIC ENERGY
13 PLANNING OFFICE, and the Office of People’s Counsel shall be borne by the public service
14 companies that are subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction.

15 (2) The costs and expenses shall be assessed as provided in this section.

16 (3) The Commission shall pay the money that it collects for the assessment
17 under this section into the Public Utility Regulation Fund in the State Treasury established
18 under § 2–110.1 of this subtitle to reimburse the State for the expenses of the Commission,
19 THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, and the Office of People’s Counsel.

20 (c) (1) (i) Before each State fiscal year, the Chairman of the Commission
21 shall estimate the Commission’s total costs and expenses, including:

22 1. the compensation and expenses of the Commission, its
23 officers, agents, and personnel;

24 2. the cost of retirement contributions, Social Security,
25 health insurance, and other benefits required to be paid by the State for the personnel of
26 the Commission;

27 3. all other maintenance and operation expenses of the
28 Commission; and

29 4. all other direct and indirect costs of the Commission.

30 (ii) The estimate shall exclude the expenses associated with services
31 performed by the Commission for which the Commission is reimbursed under this division.
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1037 3

1 (iii) THE ESTIMATE SHALL INCLUDE, AS PROVIDED BY THE
2 STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE:

3 1. THE COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES OF THE
4 STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, ITS OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND PERSONNEL;

5 2. THE COST OF RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTIONS, SOCIAL
6 SECURITY, HEALTH INSURANCE, AND OTHER BENEFITS REQUIRED TO BE PAID BY
7 THE STATE FOR THE PERSONNEL OF THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE;

8 3. ALL OTHER MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION
9 EXPENSES OF THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE; AND

10 4. ALL OTHER DIRECT AND INDIRECT COSTS OF THE
11 STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE.

12 (IV) The estimate shall include, as provided by the Office of People’s
13 Counsel:

14 1. the compensation and expenses of the Office of People’s
15 Counsel, its officers, agents, and personnel;

16 2. the cost of retirement contributions, Social Security,
17 health insurance, and other benefits required to be paid by the State for the personnel of
18 the Office of People’s Counsel;

19 3. all other maintenance and operation expenses of the Office
20 of People’s Counsel; and

21 4. all other direct and indirect costs of the Office of People’s
22 Counsel.

23 (2) Based on the estimate, the Chairman shall determine the amount to be
24 paid by each public service company.

25 (3) The Commission shall send a bill to each public service company on or
26 before May 1 of each year.

27 (4) (i) The bill shall equal the product of:

28 1. the estimated total costs and expenses of the Commission,
29 THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, and the Office of People’s Counsel during
30 the next fiscal year; multiplied by

31 2. the ratio of the gross operating revenues for the public
32 service company derived from intrastate utility and electricity supplier operations in the
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 preceding calendar year, or other 12–month period as the Chairman determines, to the
2 total of the gross operating revenues derived from intrastate utility and electricity supplier
3 operations for all public service companies that are billed under this section over that
4 period.

5 (ii) To the extent that the Commission requires an electric company
6 to report the gross operating revenue derived from intrastate utility and electricity supplier
7 operation in order to calculate the bill under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, a small
8 rural electric cooperative described in § 7–502(a) of this article may satisfy the requirement
9 by submitting to the Commission an estimate made in accordance with a formula approved
10 by the Commission from information that the small rural electric cooperative submits to
11 the rural utilities service.

12 (5) The minimum bill for a public service company shall be $10.

13 (6) The public service company:

14 (i) shall pay the bill on or before the next July 15; or

15 (ii) may elect to make partial payments on the 15th days of July,
16 October, January, and April.

17 (7) A partial payment shall equal 25% of the bill and may not be less than
18 $10.

19 (8) During any State fiscal year, the Chairman may change the estimate of
20 costs and expenses of the Commission, THE ESTIMATE OF COSTS AND EXPENSES OF THE
21 STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, AS CHANGED BY THE STRATEGIC ENERGY
22 PLANNING OFFICE, and the estimate of costs and expenses of the Office of People’s
23 Counsel, as changed by the People’s Counsel.

24 (9) (i) If the estimate is changed, the Commission shall send a revised
25 bill to each public service company that has elected to make partial payments.

26 (ii) The change shall be apportioned equally against the remaining
27 payments for the fiscal year.

28 (10) (i) On or before September 15 of each year, the Chairman shall
29 compute:

30 1. the actual costs and expenses of the Commission[,];

31 2. THE ACTUAL COSTS AND EXPENSES OF THE
32 STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, AS PROVIDED BY THE STRATEGIC ENERGY
33 PLANNING OFFICE FOR THE PRECEDING FISCAL YEAR; and
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1037 5

1 3. the actual costs and expenses of the Office of People’s
2 Counsel, as provided by the People’s Counsel for the preceding fiscal year.

3 (ii) If the amounts collected are less than the actual costs and
4 expenses of the Commission, THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, and the
5 Office of the People’s Counsel, after deducting the amounts recovered under §§ 2–111(a)
6 and 2–123 of this subtitle, on or before October 15, the Chairman shall send to any public
7 service company that is affected a statement that shows the amount due.

8 (iii) If the amounts collected exceed the actual costs and expenses of
9 the Commission, THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, and the Office of the
10 People’s Counsel for the preceding fiscal year, the Commission shall deduct any excess
11 retained funds from the appropriation for the next fiscal year before the Commission
12 determines the amount to be paid by each public service company for the next fiscal year
13 under paragraph (2) of this subsection.

14 (11) A public service company shall pay an amount due within 30 days after
15 the statement is received.

16 (12) The total amount that may be charged to a public service company
17 under this section for a State fiscal year may not exceed:

18 (i) 0.50% of the public service company’s gross operating revenues
19 derived from intrastate utility and electricity supplier operations in the preceding calendar
20 year, or other 12–month period that the Chairman determines, for the costs and expenses
21 of the Commission other than that of the STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE AND
22 THE Office of People’s Counsel; plus

23 (ii) 0.074% OF THOSE REVENUES FOR THE COSTS AND
24 EXPENSES OF THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE; PLUS

25 (III) 0.074% of those revenues for the costs and expenses of the Office
26 of People’s Counsel.

27 (d) (1) Within 30 days after the Commission issues a bill under subsection (c)
28 of this section, the party billed may request a hearing as to the amount of the bill.

29 (2) Any amount of a bill that is not paid within 30 days after the date of
30 determination on a hearing or, if a hearing is not requested, on the date when payment is
31 due, shall bear annual interest at a rate, not less than 6%, that the Commission sets by
32 regulation.

33 2–110.1.

34 (a) There is a Public Utility Regulation Fund.
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 (b) The Fund consists of:

2 (1) all revenue received through the imposition and collection of
3 assessments under § 2–110 of this subtitle;

4 (2) fees received by the Commission under § 2–123 of this subtitle for
5 filings and for other services rendered by the Commission;

6 (3) income from investments that the State Treasurer makes for the Fund;
7 and

8 (4) any other fee, examination assessment, or revenue received by the
9 Commission under this division.

10 (c) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of this section, the Commission shall pay all
11 fines and penalties collected by the Commission under this article into the Resiliency Hub
12 Grant Program Fund established under § 9–2011 of the State Government Article.

13 (d) The purpose of the Fund is to pay all the costs and expenses incurred by the
14 Commission, THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, and the Office of People’s
15 Counsel that are related to the operation of the Commission, THE STRATEGIC ENERGY
16 PLANNING OFFICE, and the Office of People’s Counsel, including:

17 (1) expenditures authorized under this division; and

18 (2) any other expense authorized in the State budget.

19 (e) (1) All the costs and expenses of the Commission, THE STRATEGIC
20 ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, and the Office of People’s Counsel shall be included in the
21 State budget.

22 (2) Expenditures from the Fund to cover costs and expenses of the
23 Commission, THE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE, and Office of People’s
24 Counsel may only be made:

25 (i) with an appropriation from the Fund approved by the General
26 Assembly in the State budget; or

27 (ii) by budget amendment in accordance with § 7–209 of the State
28 Finance and Procurement Article.

29 (f) (1) The State Treasurer is the custodian of the Fund.

30 (2) The State Treasurer shall deposit payments received from the
31 Commission into the Fund.
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 1037 7

1 (g) (1) The Fund is a continuing, special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject
2 to § 7–302 of the State Finance and Procurement Article, and may not be considered a part
3 of the General Fund of the State.

4 (2) Unless otherwise provided by law, no part of the Fund may revert or be
5 credited to:

6 (i) the General Fund of the State; or

7 (ii) any other special fund of the State.

8 SUBTITLE 12. INTEGRATED RESOURCE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE.

9 7–1201.

10 (A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
11 INDICATED.

12 (B) “DEMAND ELEMENT” MEANS A SPECIFIC FACTOR OR COMPONENT THAT
13 CONTRIBUTES TO THE OVERALL ELECTRICITY LOAD OR DEMAND.

14 (C) (B) “DIRECTOR” MEANS THE DIRECTOR OF THE INTEGRATED
15 RESOURCE STRATEGIC ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE.

16 (D) “FORECAST” MEANS THE COMPREHENSIVE ENERGY FORECAST.

17 (E) (C) “OFFICE” MEANS THE INTEGRATED RESOURCE STRATEGIC
18 ENERGY PLANNING OFFICE.

19 (D) “PJM REGION” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 7–701 OF THIS TITLE.

20 (E) “RISK REPORT” MEANS THE COMPREHENSIVE WHOLESALE ENERGY
21 MARKETS AND BULK POWER SYSTEM RISK REPORT DEVELOPED UNDER § 7–1203
22 OF THIS SUBTITLE.

23 7–1202.

24 (A) THERE IS AN INTEGRATED RESOURCE A STRATEGIC ENERGY
25 PLANNING OFFICE IN THE COMMISSION.

26 (B) (1) THE HEAD OF THE OFFICE IS THE DIRECTOR.

27 (2) (I) THE DIRECTOR SHALL:
END OF PAGE 7

START OF PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 (I) BE APPOINTED BY THE GOVERNOR WITH THE ADVICE AND
2 CONSENT OF THE SENATE; AND

3 (II) SERVE AT THE PLEASURE OF THE GOVERNOR.

4 (II) THE TERM OF THE DIRECTOR IS 5 YEARS AND BEGINS ON
5 JULY 1.

6 (III) AT THE END OF A TERM, THE DIRECTOR CONTINUES TO
7 SERVE UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND QUALIFIES.

8 (IV) A DIRECTOR WHO IS APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN
9 SERVES FOR THE REST OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND
10 QUALIFIES.

11 (V) A DIRECTOR MAY SERVE MORE THAN ONE TERM.

12 (3) THE GOVERNOR MAY REMOVE THE DIRECTOR FOR
13 INCOMPETENCE OR MISCONDUCT IN ACCORDANCE WITH § 3–307 OF THE STATE
14 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

15 (4) THE DIRECTOR IS ENTITLED TO A SALARY AS PROVIDED IN THE
16 STATE BUDGET.

17 (C) (1) THE COMMISSION SHALL PROVIDE THE OFFICE WITH SUFFICIENT
18 STAFF AND RESOURCES TO PERFORM THE FUNCTIONS OF THIS SUBTITLE.

19 (C) (1) THE OFFICE SHALL HAVE THE STAFF PROVIDED FOR IN THE
20 STATE BUDGET.

21 (2) THE OFFICE MAY HIRE A PRIVATE CONSULTANT CONSULTANTS IF
22 NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SUBTITLE.

23 (D) IN ORDER TO CARRY OUT THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SUBTITLE, THE
24 OFFICE SHALL COLLABORATE WITH:

25 (1) THE MARYLAND ENERGY ADMINISTRATION;

26 (2) THE COMMISSION;

27 (3) THE POWER PLANT RESEARCH PROGRAM;

28 (4) THE MARYLAND CLEAN ENERGY CENTER; AND

29 (5) THE DEPARTMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT.
END OF PAGE 8

START OF PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 1037 9

1 (E) THE OFFICE SHALL COORDINATE WITH THE COMMISSION TO
2 ESTABLISH PROCEDURES AND RULES TO OBTAIN INFORMATION FROM ELECTRIC
3 COMPANIES AND GAS COMPANIES NECESSARY TO ACCOMPLISH THE OFFICE’S
4 DUTIES UNDER THIS SUBTITLE.

5 7–1203.

6 (A) (1) EVERY 3 YEARS, THE OFFICE SHALL DEVELOP A
7 COMPREHENSIVE WHOLESALE ENERGY MARKETS AND BULK POWER SYSTEM RISK
8 REPORT.

9 (2) THE PURPOSE OF THE RISK REPORT IS TO:

10 (I) ASSESS WHOLESALE ENERGY MARKET FINANCIAL,
11 RESOURCE ADEQUACY, AND RELIABILITY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH SERVING THE
12 STATE’S LONG–TERM ENERGY NEEDS; AND

13 (II) IDENTIFY ANY NECESSARY COST–EFFECTIVE SOLUTIONS
14 THAT ENSURE ELECTRIC SYSTEM RELIABILITY WHILE MEETING THE STATE’S
15 ENERGY POLICY GOALS.

16 (3) THE SOLUTIONS IDENTIFIED IN THE RISK REPORT SHALL SEEK
17 TO:

18 (I) MINIMIZE THE GROWTH OF THE COST OF ELECTRICITY OR
19 LOWER THE COST OF ELECTRICITY; AND

20 (II) MINIMIZE ENERGY RESOURCE RELIABILITY RISKS.

21 (B) (1) THE RISK REPORT SHALL INCLUDE ENERGY AND DEMAND
22 FORECASTS THAT CONTAIN:

23 (I) REASONABLE, 20–YEAR PROJECTIONS FOR ELECTRICITY
24 LOAD AND ENERGY DEMANDS FOR:

25 1. TRANSMISSION ZONES; AND

26 2. ELECTRIC SERVICE TERRITORIES; AND

27 (II) PROJECTIONS FOR MEETING STATE ENERGY NEEDS AND
28 CLEAN ENERGY GOALS AND LOAD FORECASTS IN THE PJM REGION, INCLUDING:
END OF PAGE 9

START OF PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 1. LOW, AVERAGE, AND HIGH PROJECTIONS OF ENERGY
2 DEMAND BASED ON STATE POLICIES AND OTHER REASONABLE ASSUMPTIONS THAT
3 IMPACT THE PROVISION OF ELECTRICITY IN THE STATE; AND

4 2. OTHER PROJECTIONS AS NECESSARY.

5 (2) IN COLLECTING THE DATA FOR THE FORECASTS UNDER
6 PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION, THE OFFICE SHOULD, BUT IS NOT REQUIRED
7 TO, USE:

8 (I) HISTORICAL AND PROJECTED INFORMATION FROM
9 ELECTRIC COMPANIES;

10 (II) LOAD FORECASTS FOR THE PJM REGION;

11 (III) APPROPRIATE ECONOMETRIC DATA FOR THE STATE; AND

12 (IV) ANY OTHER INFORMATION THE OFFICE CONSIDERS
13 APPROPRIATE.

14 (C) (1) THE OFFICE SHALL EXAMINE DIFFERENT WHOLESALE ENERGY
15 MARKET AND BULK POWER SYSTEM SCENARIOS TO SERVE THE FORECASTS UNDER
16 SUBSECTION (B) OF THIS SECTION.

17 (2) EACH SCENARIO EXAMINED SHALL:

18 (I) IDENTIFY THE RESULTING WHOLESALE ENERGY MARKET
19 AND BULK POWER SYSTEM FINANCIAL AND RESOURCE ADEQUACY IMPACTS OF
20 SERVING THE FORECASTS WITH THE EXISTING ELECTRIC SYSTEM, KNOWN
21 ADDITIONS TO THE ELECTRIC SYSTEM, AND ELECTRIC SYSTEM RESOURCE
22 RETIREMENTS; AND

23 (II) IDENTIFY RESOURCE AND DEMAND–SIDE MANAGEMENT
24 SOLUTIONS THAT MAY RESOLVE POTENTIAL RESOURCE ADEQUACY ISSUES AT THE
25 LEAST COST.

26 (3) FOR A SUBSET OF SCENARIOS THAT ARE PRIMARILY RELIED ON
27 WITHIN THE RISK REPORT, THE OFFICE SHALL, IN ADDITION TO THE
28 REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION:

29 (I) IDENTIFY THE RESULTING WHOLESALE MARKET AND BULK
30 POWER SYSTEM RELIABILITY IMPACTS OF SERVING THE FORECASTS WITH THE
31 EXISTING ELECTRIC SYSTEM, KNOWN ADDITIONS TO THE ELECTRIC SYSTEM, AND
32 ELECTRIC SYSTEM RESOURCE RETIREMENTS; AND
END OF PAGE 10

START OF PAGE 11
HOUSE BILL 1037 11

1 (II) IDENTIFY RESOURCE AND DEMAND–SIDE MANAGEMENT
2 SOLUTIONS THAT MAY RESOLVE POTENTIAL RELIABILITY CONSTRAINTS AT THE
3 LEAST COST.

4 (4) EACH SCENARIO SHALL ALSO EXAMINE:

5 (I) DIFFERENT ENERGY RESOURCE MIXES TO MEET THE
6 STATE’S ENERGY NEEDS, INCLUDING THE USE OF DEMAND–SIDE MANAGEMENT;

7 (II) DIFFERENT APPROACHES FOR MEETING THE STATE’S
8 CLEAN ENERGY GOALS;

9 (III) IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING ENERGY RESOURCES AS
10 OPPOSED TO THE DEPLOYMENT OF NEW ENERGY RESOURCES;

11 (IV) BALANCING THE USE OF ELECTRICITY IMPORTED FROM
12 OUTSIDE THE STATE WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW ENERGY RESOURCES IN THE
13 STATE;

14 (V) FINANCIAL AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RETIRING
15 ENERGY GENERATION RESOURCES;

16 (VI) DIRECTIONAL ASSESSING OF COST RISKS TO RATEPAYERS;
17 AND

18 (VII) IMPACTS TO THE WHOLESALE ENERGY MARKET AND BULK
19 POWER SYSTEM IN MEETING THE STATE’S POLICY GOALS RELATED TO ELECTRICITY.

20 (5) THE SCENARIOS REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS
21 SUBSECTION SHALL INCLUDE:

22 (I) AT LEAST ONE SCENARIO THAT EXAMINES THE
23 ACHIEVEMENT OF THE STATE’S CLEAN ENERGY GOALS;

24 (II) AT LEAST ONE SCENARIO THAT EXAMINES A LEAST–COST
25 APPROACH TO MEETING THE STATE’S PROJECTED ENERGY NEEDS; AND

26 (III) AT LEAST ONE SCENARIO THAT ASSUMES NO CHANGES IN
27 STATE ENERGY AND CLIMATE POLICIES.

28 (D) (1) THE RISK REPORT SHALL:
END OF PAGE 11

START OF PAGE 12
12 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 (I) BE INFORMED BY THE FORECASTS AND SCENARIOS
2 REQUIRED UNDER THIS SECTION;

3 (II) PROVIDE INFORMATION ON THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH
4 SERVING THE IDENTIFIED ENERGY FORECASTS AND ACHIEVEMENT OF THE STATE’S
5 CLEAN ENERGY GOALS;

6 (III) DISCUSS THE POTENTIAL FINANCIAL IMPACTS OF THE
7 DIFFERENT SCENARIOS EXAMINED UNDER SUBSECTION (C) OF THIS SECTION ON
8 THE STATE AND RATEPAYERS;

9 (IV) IDENTIFY THE FINANCIAL, RESOURCE ADEQUACY, AND
10 RELIABILITY RISKS OF THE WHOLESALE ENERGY MARKETS AND BULK POWER
11 SYSTEM ON RATEPAYERS; AND

12 (V) SPECIFY THE INPUTS AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN
13 DEVELOPING THE RISK REPORT.

14 (2) (I) THE RISK REPORT SHALL ALSO INCLUDE ANY
15 RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE OFFICE REGARDING SHORT– AND LONG–TERM
16 SOLUTIONS TO MINIMIZE WHOLESALE ENERGY MARKET AND BULK POWER SYSTEM
17 FINANCIAL, RESOURCE ADEQUACY, AND RELIABILITY RISKS, INCLUDING
18 STRATEGIES TO IMPLEMENT ANY RECOMMENDATIONS.

19 (II) THE RECOMMENDATIONS MAY INCLUDE:

20 1. ENERGY GENERATION, TRANSMISSION, OR
21 DISTRIBUTION RESOURCE DEPLOYMENT OR DEMAND–SIDE MANAGEMENT
22 SOLUTIONS;

23 2. PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT, INCLUDING:

24 A. ALTERING OR ADDING TO EXISTING PROGRAMS; OR

25 B. PROPOSING NEW PROGRAMS;

26 3. STATUTORY OR REGULATORY CHANGES; AND

27 4. RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO
28 IMPLEMENT SHORT– AND LONG–TERM RECOMMENDATIONS IDENTIFIED IN
29 SUBPARAGRAPH (I) OF THIS PARAGRAPH, INCLUDING:

30 A. UTILIZING EXISTING OR CREATING NEW MARKET
31 STRUCTURES;
END OF PAGE 12

START OF PAGE 13
HOUSE BILL 1037 13

1 B. UTILIZING EXISTING OR CREATING NEW STATE
2 PROGRAMS;

3 C. STATE FINANCING OPTIONS, INCLUDING STATE
4 PROCUREMENT AND MULTISTATE PROCUREMENT;

5 D. ELECTRIC COMPANY PROCUREMENT OR PROGRAMS;

6 E. EXAMINING THE MIX OF IN–STATE GENERATION
7 VERSUS RELYING ON IMPORTS AND DEMAND–SIDE MANAGEMENT; AND

8 F. ANY OTHER RECOMMENDATIONS THAT THE OFFICE
9 CONSIDERS APPROPRIATE.

10 (III) IF THE OFFICE DETERMINES THAT THE IDENTIFIED RISKS
11 ARE ACCEPTABLE OR THAT EXISTING MARKET DESIGNS, PROCESSES, OR POLICIES
12 WILL ADEQUATELY ADDRESS THE RISKS IDENTIFIED IN THE RISK REPORT, THE
13 OFFICE MAY RECOMMEND THAT NO ACTIONS BE TAKEN.

14 (IV) THE OFFICE SHALL SUPPORT THE RECOMMENDATIONS BY
15 ANALYSES THAT BALANCE AFFORDABILITY, RELIABILITY, AND GREENHOUSE GAS
16 EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS.

17 7–1204.

18 (A) (1) THE OFFICE SHALL:

19 (I) DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN THE TOOLS AND RESOURCES
20 NECESSARY TO COMPLETE THE ANALYSES REQUIRED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE;

21 (II) COORDINATE WITH PJM INTERCONNECTION, LLC TO
22 DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN THE TOOLS NECESSARY TO COMPLETE THE ANALYSES
23 REQUIRED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE;

24 (III) HAVE THE ABILITY TO CONDUCT COST–BENEFIT ANALYSES
25 OF ENERGY GENERATION RESOURCES IN WHOLESALE ENERGY MARKETS; AND

26 (IV) PROVIDE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK
27 ON ANY REPORTS DEVELOPED BY THE OFFICE.

28 (2) (I) FOR THE RISK REPORT REQUIRED UNDER § 7–1203 OF THIS
29 SUBTITLE, THE OFFICE SHALL CONDUCT A STAKEHOLDER PROCESS TO SOLICIT
END OF PAGE 13

START OF PAGE 14
14 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 FEEDBACK REGARDING THE DEVELOPMENT OF DATA INPUTS THAT WILL INFORM
2 THE FORECASTS AND SCENARIOS FOR DEVELOPING THE RISK REPORT.

3 (II) THE OFFICE IS NOT REQUIRED TO UTILIZE THE FEEDBACK
4 RECEIVED FROM THE STAKEHOLDER PROCESS CONDUCTED UNDER PARAGRAPH
5 (1)(II) OF THIS SUBSECTION, BUT SHALL PROVIDE DOCUMENTATION OF THE
6 STAKEHOLDER PROCESS IN THE RISK REPORT.

7 (3) (I) IN ADDITION TO THE PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED IN §
8 7–1206 OF THIS SUBTITLE, AFTER THE PUBLICATION OF THE RISK REPORT OR ANY
9 UPDATE TO THE REPORT, THE OFFICE SHALL CONDUCT A STAKEHOLDER PROCESS
10 TO DEVELOP A REPORT THAT ASSESSES STRATEGIES TO ADDRESS THE IDENTIFIED
11 RISKS AND RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE RISK REPORT.

12 (II) WHEN ASSESSING STRATEGIES UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH (I)
13 OF THIS PARAGRAPH, THERE SHALL BE CONSIDERATION OF:

14 1. NEW OR EXISTING PROGRAMS;

15 2. LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY ENHANCEMENTS;

16 3. REVISED REGULATORY STRUCTURES;

17 4. STATE COORDINATION OF FEDERAL SOLUTIONS;

18 5. UTILIZING MARKET MECHANISMS; AND

19 6. ANY OTHER FACTORS CONSIDERED APPROPRIATE.

20 (B) THE OFFICE, IN CONSULTATION WITH THE COMMISSION AND THE
21 MARYLAND ENERGY ADMINISTRATION, SHALL COMPLETE ENERGY MODELING FOR
22 THE RISK REPORT.

23 (C) (1) ON OR BEFORE NOVEMBER 1 EACH YEAR, THE SENATE
24 COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION, ENERGY, AND THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE HOUSE
25 ECONOMIC MATTERS COMMITTEE MAY JOINTLY REQUEST THE OFFICE TO ASSESS
26 UP TO FIVE POLICY SCENARIOS.

27 (2) NOT LATER THAN 1 YEAR AFTER THE DATE THE OFFICE RECEIVES
28 A REQUEST UNDER PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION, THE OFFICE SHALL
29 SUBMIT A REPORT OF THE RESULTS OF THE REQUESTED POLICY SCENARIOS TO THE
30 SENATE COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION, ENERGY, AND THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE
31 HOUSE ECONOMIC MATTERS COMMITTEE IN ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE
32 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.
END OF PAGE 14

START OF PAGE 15
HOUSE BILL 1037 15

1 7–1205.

2 (A) ON OR BEFORE SEPTEMBER 1, 2028, AND EVERY 3 YEARS THEREAFTER,
3 THE OFFICE SHALL SUBMIT THE RISK REPORT TO THE GOVERNOR AND, IN
4 ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, THE GENERAL
5 ASSEMBLY.

6 (B) (1) THE OFFICE MAY SUBMIT TO THE GOVERNOR AND, IN
7 ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, THE GENERAL
8 ASSEMBLY ANY ADDITIONAL UPDATES TO THE RISK REPORT AT ANY TIME.

9 (2) THE UPDATES SHALL INCLUDE:

10 (I) THE STATUS OF AND ANY CHANGES TO THE FORECASTS AND
11 SCENARIOS DEVELOPED UNDER § 7–1203 OF THIS SUBTITLE;

12 (II) INFORMATION ON ANY NEW FORECASTS AND SCENARIOS
13 THE OFFICE HAS DEVELOPED; AND

14 (III) ANY OTHER CHANGES TO THE INFORMATION OR
15 RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN THE REPORT OR ANY PRECEDING UPDATES TO
16 THE REPORT.

17 (C) ON OR BEFORE SEPTEMBER 1, 2028, AND EVERY 3 YEARS THEREAFTER,
18 THE OFFICE SHALL SUBMIT TO THE GOVERNOR AND, IN ACCORDANCE WITH §
19 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY THE
20 REPORT REQUIRED UNDER § 7–1204(A)(3) OF THIS SUBTITLE.

21 7–1206.

22 (A) BEGINNING ON OR BEFORE SEPTEMBER 1, 2030, AND AT LEAST ONCE
23 EVERY 3 YEARS THEREAFTER, AFTER RECEIVING A REQUEST BY THE OFFICE, THE
24 COMMISSION, IN CONSULTATION WITH THE OFFICE, SHALL CONDUCT A PUBLIC
25 PROCEEDING TO ASSESS THE RESULTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS CONTAINED IN THE
26 RISK REPORT AND ANY UPDATES TO THE REPORT.

27 (B) THE PUBLIC PROCEEDING SHALL INCLUDE A PUBLIC HEARING AND AN
28 OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT ON THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE RISK
29 REPORT AND ANY UPDATES TO THE REPORT.

30 (C) THE OFFICE SHALL CONSIDER ANY FEEDBACK RECEIVED THROUGH
31 THE PUBLIC PROCEEDING AND DETERMINE IF ANY FURTHER CHANGES TO THE RISK
32 REPORT ARE NECESSARY.
END OF PAGE 15

START OF PAGE 16
16 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 (D) THE COMMISSION SHALL CONSIDER ANY FEEDBACK RECEIVED
2 THROUGH THE PUBLIC PROCEEDING AND DETERMINE WHETHER ANY ACTION
3 UNDER ITS JURISDICTION IS WARRANTED.

4 7–1207.

5 (A) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO:

6 (1) THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER § 7–1204(A)(3) OF THIS
7 SUBTITLE; AND

8 (2) THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER § 7–1204(C)(2) OF THIS
9 SUBTITLE.

10 (B) EACH REPORT REQUIRED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE SHALL INCLUDE
11 DOCUMENTATION OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND ANY FEEDBACK RECEIVED
12 RELATED TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF THAT REPORT.

13 7–1203.

14 (A) THE OFFICE SHALL DEVELOP A 25–YEAR COMPREHENSIVE ENERGY
15 FORECAST.

16 (B) THE PURPOSE OF THE FORECAST IS TO ANALYZE ENERGY SCENARIOS
17 AND POLICY OPTIONS FOR MEETING THE STATE’S ENERGY NEEDS AND
18 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION GOALS WHILE ENSURING ELECTRIC
19 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM RELIABILITY AND COST–EFFECTIVENESS CONSISTENT WITH
20 THE LONG–TERM ENERGY NEEDS OF THE STATE.

21 (C) THE FORECAST SHALL INCLUDE:

22 (1) REASONABLE PROJECTIONS FOR ELECTRICITY LOAD AND
23 DEMAND FROM 2025 THROUGH 2050 THAT INCLUDE:

24 (I) STATEWIDE DEMAND ELEMENTS; AND

25 (II) DEMAND ELEMENTS FOR SPECIFIC ELECTRIC SERVICE
26 TERRITORIES;

27 (2) SCENARIOS FOR MEETING:

28 (I) STATE ENERGY NEEDS AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
29 REDUCTION GOALS; AND
END OF PAGE 16

START OF PAGE 17
HOUSE BILL 1037 17

1 (II) LOAD FORECASTS IN THE PJM REGION, AS DEFINED IN §
2 7–101 OF THIS TITLE; AND

3 (3) A STRATEGY TO MEET THE SCENARIO THAT THE OFFICE
4 DETERMINES BEST MEETS THE NEEDS STATED IN ITEM (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION AND
5 THAT INCLUDES:

6 (I) INFORMATION ON THE SCENARIO’S IMPACT ON ENERGY
7 RELIABILITY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS;

8 (II) THE FINANCIAL IMPACT OF THE SCENARIO ON THE STATE
9 AND RATEPAYERS;

10 (III) 1. SHORT– AND LONG–TERM RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
11 THE GENERATION, DISTRIBUTION, TRANSMISSION, AND STORAGE OF ELECTRICITY,
12 SUPPORTED BY ANALYSES THAT BALANCE AFFORDABILITY, RELIABILITY, AND
13 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS; AND

14 2. RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO
15 IMPLEMENT THE SHORT– AND LONG–TERM RECOMMENDATIONS;

16 (IV) LOCATIONAL VALUE ESTIMATIONS INCLUDING PRIORITY
17 GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION ZONES ATTRACTIVE FOR RESOURCE
18 DEVELOPMENT;

19 (V) A SUMMARY OF RELEVANT REGULATORY AND
20 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES THAT COULD BE STREAMLINED OR MODERNIZED
21 FOR GREATER EFFICIENCY;

22 (VI) THE USE OF ALL BEST AVAILABLE TECHNOLOGIES AND
23 TECHNOLOGIES THAT MAY BECOME AVAILABLE IN THE FUTURE;

24 (VII) SENSITIVITIES RELATED TO VARIOUS LEVELS OF
25 ELECTRIFICATION AND THE ADOPTION OF LOAD FLEXIBILITY AND DISTRIBUTED
26 ENERGY RESOURCES;

27 (VIII) METHODS FOR ACHIEVING 60%, 80%, AND 100% OF THE
28 STATE’S ENERGY NEEDS THROUGH IN–STATE GENERATION;

29 (IX) AN INDEPENDENT RATEPAYER IMPACT ANALYSIS;

30 (X) RELATED INVESTMENTS IN ELECTRICITY AND GAS
31 INFRASTRUCTURE, INCLUDING ANY INTERPLAY BETWEEN THE TWO;
END OF PAGE 17

START OF PAGE 18
18 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 (XI) ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND WORKFORCE
2 OPPORTUNITIES;

3 (XII) STATE FINANCING OPTIONS, INCLUDING STATE
4 PROCUREMENT AND MULTISTATE PROCUREMENT;

5 (XIII) UTILITY BUSINESS MODELS, TARIFFS, AND COST RECOVERY;

6 (XIV) SUPPORTIVE MARKET STUDIES;

7 (XV) PLANS FOR LEVERAGING AVAILABLE FEDERAL FUNDS; AND

8 (XVI) KEY FINDINGS FROM THE STUDY REQUIRED UNDER
9 SUBSECTION (D) OF THIS SECTION.

10 (D) (1) ON OR BEFORE SEPTEMBER 30, 2026, THE OFFICE SHALL
11 CONDUCT A STUDY TO SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE FORECAST.

12 (2) THE OFFICE SHALL HIRE A PRIVATE CONSULTANT TO MEET THE
13 REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SECTION.

14 (3) AS PART OF THE STUDY:

15 (I) THE COMMISSION SHALL STUDY:

16 1. THE VIABILITY OF ENERGY STORAGE AS A
17 TRANSMISSION ASSET;

18 2. THE NECESSITY OF AN INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTION
19 OPERATOR; AND

20 3. IN CONSULTATION WITH THE MARYLAND ENERGY
21 ADMINISTRATION, RECONDUCTORING OPPORTUNITIES IN THE STATE;

22 (II) THE MARYLAND ENERGY ADMINISTRATION SHALL STUDY
23 THE FEASIBILITY OF PLACING SMALL MODULAR REACTORS ON FORMER
24 ELECTRICITY GENERATION SITES; AND

25 (III) THE POWER PLANT RESEARCH PROGRAM SHALL STUDY
26 STATE LAND SUITABLE FOR SOLAR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT.

27 (4) THE STUDY SHALL:

28 (I) INCLUDE AN ANALYSIS, MADE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
29 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, OF METHODS FOR REDUCING
END OF PAGE 18

START OF PAGE 19
HOUSE BILL 1037 19

1 TRANSMISSION–CONSTRAINED AREAS THROUGH THE USE OF EXISTING
2 RIGHTS–OF–WAY;

3 (II) INCLUDE THE FEASIBILITY AND EFFICACY OF:

4 1. BROADENING THE STATE’S POWER PURCHASE
5 AGREEMENT AUTHORITY;

6 2. DEVELOPING ELECTRICITY PROCUREMENT PLANS TO
7 ENSURE ADEQUATE, RELIABLE, AFFORDABLE, EFFICIENT, AND ENVIRONMENTALLY
8 SUSTAINABLE ELECTRICITY SERVICE AT THE LOWEST TOTAL COST OVER TIME,
9 TAKING INTO ACCOUNT ANY PRICE STABILITY BENEFITS; AND

10 3. CONDUCTING COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT
11 PROCESSES TO PROCURE THE RESOURCES IDENTIFIED IN THE PROCUREMENT
12 PLANS UNDER ITEM (II) OF THIS ITEM; AND

13 (III) INCLUDE AND INCORPORATE THE RESULTS OF THE STUDIES
14 REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH (3) OF THIS SUBSECTION.

15 (5) ON OR BEFORE DECEMBER 31, 2026, THE OFFICE SHALL SUBMIT
16 A REPORT OF ITS FINDINGS AND ANY RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE GENERAL
17 ASSEMBLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

18 7–1204.

19 (A) THE OFFICE, IN CONSULTATION WITH THE COMMISSION AND THE
20 MARYLAND ENERGY ADMINISTRATION, SHALL COMPLETE ENERGY MODELING FOR
21 THE STRATEGY AND SCENARIOS INCLUDED IN THE FORECAST UNDER § 7–1203 OF
22 THIS SUBTITLE, AND FOR ANY CHANGES TO THE STRATEGY SET FORTH IN THE
23 FORECAST, THAT:

24 (1) ENABLES COST–BENEFIT ANALYSES OF ELECTRICITY PRICES BY
25 RESOURCE MIX TYPE;

26 (2) CONSIDERS THE TIMELINE FOR COMMERCIALIZATION OF ENERGY
27 TECHNOLOGIES AND WHEN THOSE TECHNOLOGIES MAY BECOME COST–EFFECTIVE;

28 (3) PROVIDES LOCATIONAL VALUE PLANNING;

29 (4) HAS THE ABILITY TO RUN POLICY SCENARIOS ANNUALLY IN
30 ORDER TO PROVIDE EFFECTIVE FEEDBACK TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY;
END OF PAGE 19

START OF PAGE 20
20 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 (5) CONSIDERS WHETHER THE TRANSITION TO DISTRIBUTED
2 RENEWABLE ENERGY IS DELIVERING SUFFICIENT ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
3 RELIABILITY OR WHETHER THERE ARE VULNERABILITIES THAT NEED TO BE
4 ADDRESSED;

5 (6) STRENGTHENS THE DIVERSITY, SUSTAINABILITY, AND
6 RESILIENCE OF THE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION SYSTEM;

7 (7) ENHANCES THE ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AND
8 DEMAND–SIDE MANAGEMENT; AND

9 (8) MAY BE UPDATED ANNUALLY BASED ON STRATEGIES, POLICY
10 DECISIONS, AND PERIODIC REASSESSMENTS OF THE STATE’S ENERGY PORTFOLIO
11 TO REMAIN UP–TO–DATE WITH THE EVOLUTION OF ENERGY GENERATION AND
12 TRANSMISSION.

13 (B) THE OFFICE SHALL PROVIDE A 45–DAY PERIOD FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
14 ON ANY MODELING COMPLETED UNDER THIS SECTION.

15 7–1205.

16 ON OR BEFORE SEPTEMBER 1, 2027, AND EVERY 2 YEARS THEREAFTER, THE
17 OFFICE SHALL SUBMIT TO THE GOVERNOR AND, IN ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF
18 THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY A REPORT ON:

19 (1) THE STATUS OF THE FORECAST DEVELOPED UNDER § 7–1203 OF
20 THIS SUBTITLE AND ANY CHANGES TO THE STRATEGY SET FORTH IN THE FORECAST;
21 AND

22 (2) (I) ANY ENERGY MODELING COMPLETED UNDER § 7–1204 OF
23 THIS SUBTITLE IN THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING 2–YEAR PERIOD; AND

24 (II) ANY PUBLIC COMMENTS SUBMITTED IN RELATION TO THE
25 MODELING.

26 7–1206.

27 (A) ON OR BEFORE DECEMBER 1, 2025, THE COMMISSION, IN
28 CONSULTATION WITH THE OFFICE, SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS REQUIRING EACH
29 ELECTRIC COMPANY TO DEVELOP AN INTEGRATED RESOURCE PLAN TO:

30 (1) FACILITATE ACHIEVING THE STATE’S GREENHOUSE GAS
31 EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS GOALS;
END OF PAGE 20

START OF PAGE 21
HOUSE BILL 1037 21

1 (2) FULFILL THE COMPANY’S OBLIGATION TO CHARGE JUST AND
2 REASONABLE RATES;

3 (3) MINIMIZE OR MITIGATE IMPACTS ON RATEPAYERS IN THE STATE;

4 (4) ENSURE BOTH SHORT–TERM AND LONG–TERM ELECTRIC
5 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM RELIABILITY, INCLUDING MEETING THE RESOURCE
6 ADEQUACY NEEDS OF THE STATE;

7 (5) STRENGTHEN THE DIVERSITY, SUSTAINABILITY, AND RESILIENCE
8 OF THE ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION SYSTEM;

9 (6) ENHANCE THE ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM AND
10 DEMAND–SIDE MANAGEMENT; AND

11 (7) MINIMIZE LOCALIZED AIR POLLUTANTS AND OTHER GREENHOUSE
12 GAS EMISSIONS, WITH PRIORITY INITIALLY GIVEN TO UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES
13 OR OVERBURDENED COMMUNITIES AS DEFINED IN § 1–701 OF THE ENVIRONMENT
14 ARTICLE.

15 (B) (1) ON OR BEFORE JULY 1, 2026, EACH ELECTRIC COMPANY SHALL
16 SUBMIT TO THE COMMISSION THE INTEGRATED RESOURCE PLAN REQUIRED UNDER
17 THIS SECTION.

18 (2) ON OR BEFORE JULY 1, 2031, AND EVERY 5 YEARS THEREAFTER,
19 EACH ELECTRIC COMPANY SHALL PROVIDE TO THE COMMISSION AN UPDATE ON
20 THE INTEGRATED RESOURCE PLAN REQUIRED UNDER THIS SECTION.

21 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

22 (a) (1) The Public Service Commission shall study the effectiveness of an
23 independent distribution operator.

24 (2) On or before December 31, 2026, the Public Service Commission shall
25 submit to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government
26 Article, a report on the study required under paragraph (1) of this subsection.

27 (b) (1) The Department of Transportation shall study methods for reducing
28 transmission–constrained areas through the use of existing rights–of–way.

29 (2) On or before December 31, 2026, the Department of Transportation
30 shall submit to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
31 Government Article, a report on the study required under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
END OF PAGE 21

START OF PAGE 22
22 HOUSE BILL 1037

1 (c) (1) (i) The Maryland Energy Administration shall obtain existing
2 power flow analyses for electric system reliability in the State that are related to currently
3 known electric generation facility retirements.

4 (ii) If the Maryland Energy Administration is unable to obtain the
5 existing power flow analyses under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, then the
6 Administration, with the support of the Public Service Commission, shall develop a power
7 flow analysis for electric system reliability in the State that is related to currently known
8 electric generation facility retirements.

9 (iii) On or before January 1, 2026, the Maryland Energy
10 Administration shall submit to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
11 Government Article, the General Assembly a report on the power flow analyses required
12 under this paragraph.

13 (2) (i) On or before December 31, 2025, and on or before December 31,
14 2026, the Maryland Energy Administration shall provide to the General Assembly, in
15 accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, an update on the status of the
16 National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s analysis on resource adequacy conducted at the
17 request of the Administration.

18 (ii) On receipt of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s final
19 analysis on resource adequacy, the Maryland Energy Administration shall submit a final
20 report on the analysis to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
21 Government Article.

22 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before September 1,
23 2027, the Strategic Energy Planning Office shall submit to the Governor and, in accordance
24 with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, the General Assembly a status update on
25 the development of the Comprehensive Wholesale Energy Markets and Bulk Power System
26 Risk Report developed under § 7–1203 of the Public Utilities Article, as enacted by Section
27 1 of this Act.

28 SECTION ~~2.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
29 July 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 22