PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1064

L5, L2 5lr0974

By: Montgomery County Delegation and Prince George’s County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: February 5, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 2, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Montgomery County Planning Board and Washington Suburban Sanitary
3 Commission – Open Meetings – Live Streaming Requirement

4 MC/PG 101–25

5 FOR the purpose of ~~altering~~ establishing that certain project site visits and educational
6 field tours do not constitute open meetings subject to the requirement that the
7 Montgomery County Planning Board and the Washington Suburban Sanitary
8 Commission, respectively, stream live video or audio of their open meetings ~~to~~ ~~apply~~
9 ~~only~~ ~~to~~ ~~meetings~~ ~~held~~ ~~at~~ ~~certain~~ ~~locations;~~ and generally relating to open meetings of
10 the Montgomery County Planning Board and the Washington Suburban Sanitary
11 Commission.

12 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
13 Article – Land Use
14 Section 20–202(e)
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2012 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

17 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
18 Article – Public Utilities
19 Section 17–106(e)
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1064*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1064

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Land Use

4 20–202.

5 (e) (1) This subsection applies only to the Montgomery County Planning
6 Board.

7 (2) The Board shall:

(5)8 (i) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION,9 stream live video or live teleconference audio or other audio of the open
~~AT:~~10 meetings of the Board ~~ONLY~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEETING~~ ~~IS~~ ~~HELD~~

~~1.~~ ~~BOARD;~~11 ~~THE~~ ~~HEADQUARTERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~2.~~ ~~BOARD~~ ~~10~~12 ~~A~~ ~~LOCATION~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HELD~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~
13 ~~YEAR;~~~~MEETINGS~~ ~~DURING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IMMEDIATELY~~ ~~PRECEDING~~ ~~CALENDAR~~

14 (ii) maintain on its website a complete and unedited archived
15 recording of each open meeting that is livestreamed in accordance with this subsection; and

16 (iii) notwithstanding § 3–306(b)(2)(i) of the General Provisions
17 Article:

18 1. prepare minutes of each meeting as soon as practicable
19 after the meeting; and

20 2. publish and maintain on its website the minutes of each
21 open meeting prepared in accordance with this subsection.

22 (3) The inability of the Board to comply with paragraph (2)(i) and (ii) of this
23 subsection due to technical failure that entirely prevents or otherwise affects the quality of
24 the live video or audio streaming of a meeting of the Board does not affect the validity of
25 any action taken by the Board during the meeting if:

26 (i) the Board otherwise complies with this subsection and the Open
27 Meetings Act; and

28 (ii) the inability to comply is not due to willful action by the Board.

29 (4) In addition to complying with the minutes requirements of the Open
30 Meetings Act under § 3–306 of the General Provisions Article, if the Board is unable to
31 comply with paragraph (2)(i) of this subsection, the Board shall make good–faith efforts to

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1064 3

1 record an open meeting by video or audio and maintain on its website a complete and
2 unedited archived recording of the meeting.

(5) A3 PROJECT SITE VISIT OR AN EDUCATIONAL FIELD TOUR DOES
(2)(I)4 NOT CONSTITUTE AN OPEN MEETING UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
CONDUCTED.5 SUBSECTION IF NO ORGANIZATIONAL BUSINESS IS

6 Article – Public Utilities

7 17–106.

8 (e) (1) The Commission shall:

(4)9 (i) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION,10 stream live video or live teleconference audio or other audio of the open
~~AT:~~11 meetings of the Commission ~~ONLY~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEETING~~ ~~IS~~ ~~HELD~~

~~1.~~ ~~COMMISSION;~~12 ~~THE~~ ~~HEADQUARTERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~2.~~ ~~COMMISSION~~13 ~~A~~ ~~LOCATION~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HELD~~ ~~AT~~
~~10~~14 ~~YEAR;~~ and~~LEAST~~ ~~MEETINGS~~ ~~DURING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IMMEDIATELY~~ ~~PRECEDING~~ ~~CALENDAR~~

15 (ii) maintain on its website a complete and unedited archived
16 recording of each open meeting that is livestreamed in accordance with this subsection.

17 (2) The inability of the Commission to comply with paragraph (1) of this
18 subsection due to technical failure that entirely prevents or otherwise affects the quality of
19 the live video or audio streaming of a meeting of the Commission does not affect the validity
20 of any action taken by the Commission during the meeting if:

21 (i) the Commission otherwise complies with this section and the
22 Open Meetings Act; and

23 (ii) the inability to comply is not due to willful action by the
24 Commission.

25 (3) In addition to complying with the minutes requirements of the Open
26 Meetings Act under § 3–306 of the General Provisions Article, if the Commission is unable
27 to comply with the requirements of paragraph (1)(i) of this subsection, the Commission
28 shall make good faith efforts to record an open session by video or audio and maintain on
29 its website a complete and unedited archived recording of the meeting.

(4) A30 PROJECT SITE VISIT OR AN EDUCATIONAL FIELD TOUR DOES
(1)(I)31 NOT CONSTITUTE AN OPEN MEETING UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
CONDUCTED.32 SUBSECTION IF NO ORGANIZATIONAL BUSINESS IS

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1064

1 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
2 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.