START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1060

P1, E4, D1 5lr3019
CF SB 280

By: ~~Delegate~~ ~~Crutchfield~~ Delegates Crutchfield and Kaufman
Introduced and read first time: February 5, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Judicial and Public Safety for Service Members Act

3 FOR the purpose of establishing rules of interpretation related to the uniformed services;
4 altering the rule of interpretation for “veteran”; altering the application of certain
5 provisions of judicial proceedings, corrections, criminal, family, public safety, and
6 real property laws to apply to all uniformed services, rather than only the armed
7 forces; and generally relating to veterans and uniformed services.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Correctional Services
10 Section 2–109
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
14 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
15 Section 3–804, 5–642, 7–406, 8–302, and 9–501(a)(8)
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
19 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
20 Section 8–101(a) and 9–501(a)(1)
21 Annotated Code of Maryland
22 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1060*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 BY adding to
2 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
3 Section 8–101(a–1)
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
7 Article – Criminal Law
8 Section 1–101(a) and 4–111(a)(1)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 BY adding to
12 Article – Criminal Law
13 Section 1–101(k) and 4–111(a)(8)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
17 Article – Criminal Law
18 Section 4–111(a)(8) and (b)(3) and 8–303(a)
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

21 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
22 Article – Family Law
23 Section 1–101(a)
24 Annotated Code of Maryland
25 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

26 BY adding to
27 Article – Family Law
28 Section 1–101(j), (k), and (o)
29 Annotated Code of Maryland
30 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

31 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
32 Article – Family Law
33 Section 1–101(j), (k), and (l), 2–405(d), 5–525(b)(3)(i), and 9–108(a)
34 Annotated Code of Maryland
35 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

36 BY adding to
37 Article – General Provisions
38 Section 1–101.1, 1–101.2, 1–103.1, 1–114.1, 1–114.2, and 1–116
39 Annotated Code of Maryland
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1060 3

1 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

2 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
3 Article – General Provisions
4 Section 1–117
5 Annotated Code of Maryland
6 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

7 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
8 Article – Public Safety
9 Section 1–101(a), 2–418(a)(1), 13A–101(a), and 14–101(a)
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 BY adding to
13 Article – Public Safety
14 Section 1–101(a–1), (a–2), (d–1), (f), and (g)
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

17 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
18 Article – Public Safety
19 Section 1–202(a–1) and (e), 2–418(a)(2), 3–209(a)(5)(ii), 5–102(4), 5–103(2)(ii),
20 5–117.1(a)(3) and (c)(1)(iii), 5–132(b)(1)(ii), 5–133(d)(2)(iii), 5–134(c)(3),
21 5–137(b)(2), 5–203(a)(1)(ii), 5–204.1(a)(1)(iii), 5–306(a)(1)(ii) and (b)(2),
22 11–105(c), 13–205, 13–215(a), 13–503(b)(2), 13–510(b)(1), (c)(2), and (d),
23 13–601(a)(2), 13–704.1, 13–902(a), 13–904(a), 13A–101(k)(1)(i),
24 13A–506(c)(1)(i), 13A–1009(a)(3)(i), 13A–1041(b)(2), 13A–1102(b)(6), and
25 14–101(d)(2)
26 Annotated Code of Maryland
27 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

28 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
29 Article – Real Property
30 Section 8–212.1
31 Annotated Code of Maryland
32 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

33 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
34 Article – State Government
35 Section 9–901
36 Annotated Code of Maryland
37 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

38 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
39 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 Article – Correctional Services

2 2–109.

3 (a) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
4 INDICATED.

5 (2) “RESERVE COMPONENT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901
6 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

7 (3) “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901
8 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

9 (4) “VETERAN” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
10 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

11 (B) The Secretary shall adopt regulations for the office of the Secretary.

12 [(b)] (C) (1) The Secretary shall review regulations proposed by a unit in the
13 Department.

14 (2) The Secretary may approve, disapprove, or revise regulations proposed
15 by a unit in the Department.

16 [(c)] (D) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the
17 Secretary shall adopt regulations to govern the policies and management of correctional
18 facilities in the Department in accordance with Title 10, Subtitle 1 of the State Government
19 Article.

20 (2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection does not apply to a guideline pertaining
21 to the routine internal management of correctional facilities in the Division of Correction.

22 (3) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the Secretary
23 shall adopt regulations that provide for a requirement that:

24 1. a correctional officer hired on or after October 1, 2007, for
25 employment in any unit of the Division of Correction shall be at least 21 years old; and

26 2. a correctional officer hired on or after October 1, 2008, for
27 employment in any unit of the Division of Pretrial Detention and Services or the Patuxent
28 Institution shall be at least 21 years old.

29 (ii) The regulations adopted under subparagraph (i) of this
30 paragraph shall exempt any [honorably discharged] veteran or HONORABLY
31 DISCHARGED reserve COMPONENT member of the [United States armed forces]
32 UNIFORMED SERVICES from the minimum age requirement.
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1060 5

1 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

2 3–804.

3 (A) IN THIS SECTION, “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE MEANING STATED
4 IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

5 [(a)] (B) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the court
6 has jurisdiction under this subtitle only if the alleged CINA or child in a voluntary
7 placement is under the age of 18 years when the petition is filed.

8 (2) The court has jurisdiction under this subtitle over a former CINA:

9 (i) Whose commitment to the local department was rescinded after
10 the individual reached the age of 18 years but before the individual reached the age of 20
11 years and 6 months; and

12 (ii) Who did not exit foster care due to reunification, adoption,
13 guardianship, marriage, or [military duty] SERVICE IN THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
14 UNIFORMED SERVICES DUTY.

15 [(b)] (C) If the court obtains jurisdiction over a child, that jurisdiction continues
16 in that case until the child reaches the age of 21 years, unless the court terminates the case.

17 [(c)] (D) After the court terminates jurisdiction, a custody order issued by the
18 court in a CINA case:

19 (1) Remains in effect; and

20 (2) May be revised or superseded only by another court of competent
21 jurisdiction.

22 [(d)] (E) Notwithstanding subsection [(b)] (C) of this section, if the court enters
23 an order directing the provision of services to a child under § 3–819(c)(3) or §
24 3–823(h)(2)(vii) of this subtitle, the court retains jurisdiction to rule on any motion related
25 to the enforcement, modification, or termination of the order, for as long as the order is
26 effective.

27 5–642.

28 (a) IN THIS SECTION, “VETERAN” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF
29 THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

30 (B) A licensed funeral establishment or holder of a permit to engage in the
31 business of a crematory who acts in good faith is not civilly liable for transferring the
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 unclaimed cremated remains of a veteran or an eligible dependent of a veteran to a veterans
2 service organization for purposes of disposition as provided in § 5–803 of the Business
3 Regulation Article and § 7–406 of the Health Occupations Article.

4 [(b)] (C) A veterans service organization that acts in good faith is not civilly
5 liable for receiving the unclaimed cremated remains of a veteran or an eligible dependent
6 of a veteran for purposes of disposition as provided in § 5–803 of the Business Regulation
7 Article and § 7–406 of the Health Occupations Article.

8 7–406.

9 (a) (1) In this section, [“armed forces” means the armed forces of the United
10 States] “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
11 INDICATED.

12 (2) “ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN §
13 9–901 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

14 (3) “SERVICE MEMBER” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
15 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

16 (b) A clerk of court shall provide without charge:

17 (1) A copy of any paper or record in the clerk’s office that is requested by a
18 former or active [armed forces] SERVICE member OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES, in
19 person, or by the United States government, if the copy is to be used in connection with a
20 claim of the FORMER OR ACTIVE SERVICE member against the United States
21 government;

22 (2) A copy of a marriage record of a former or active [armed forces]
23 SERVICE member OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES that is requested by the FORMER OR
24 ACTIVE SERVICE member; and

25 (3) A copy of a marriage record of a former or active [armed forces]
26 SERVICE member OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES or of a surviving spouse or child of the
27 FORMER OR ACTIVE SERVICE member that is requested, if the copy is to be used in
28 connection with a claim for a dependent or beneficiary of the FORMER OR ACTIVE
29 SERVICE member.

30 8–101.

31 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

32 (A–1) “ACTIVE DUTY” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
33 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 1060 7

1 8–302.

2 (a) In accordance with an agreement, if any, under § 8–213 of this title, a juror
3 qualification form in substantially the following form shall be provided to each prospective
4 juror:

5 Juror Qualification Form

6 Name:

7 Resident address:

8 Telephone: (home) _________ (work) _________ (cellular) _______

9 Age: _____ Date of Birth:__________

10 If you are over 70 years of age, do you wish to be exempted from jury services?
11 _____Yes _____No

12 U.S. Citizen? _____Yes _____No

13 Able to comprehend, read, speak, and write English? _____Yes _____No

14 Highest level of education completed:

15 ___ high school ___ college ___ graduate school ___ other

16 Occupation of prospective juror: __________

17 Name of employer: ___________

18 Occupation of spouse, if any: __________

19 Disability preventing satisfactory jury service? _____Yes _____No

20 Do you want an accommodation under the federal Americans with Disabilities
21 Act? _____Yes _____No

22 Pending charge for a crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding 1 year?
23 _____Yes _____No

24 Conviction of crime punishable by imprisonment exceeding 1 year and received
25 a sentence of imprisonment for more than 1 year and not legally pardoned?
26 _____Yes _____No

27 Date of Conviction __________
END OF PAGE 7

START OF PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 _____Elected official of the federal Legislative Branch, as defined in 2 U.S.C. §
2 30a.

3 _____Active duty member of armed forces, AS DEFINED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
4 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, exempted in accordance with 10 U.S.C. § 982.

5 _____ACTIVE DUTY MEMBER OF THE COMMISSIONED CORPS OF THE NATIONAL
6 OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION, EXEMPTED IN ACCORDANCE
7 WITH 10 U.S.C. § 982, AS MADE APPLICABLE BY 33 U.S.C. § 307(A)(6).

8 _____Member of Maryland’s organized militia exempted in accordance with
9 Public Safety Article § 13–218.

10 Prior jury service within 3 preceding years: __________

11 Form completed by me _____ Another (name) _____ and, if another, why?

12 Under the penalties of perjury, the responses are true to the best of my knowledge

13 Signed:________________________________________________

14 Prospective Juror

15 Individual completing form for prospective juror:

16 This form must be completed, signed, and returned to the jury commissioner within 10 days
17 after receipt. Documentation for excusal due to disability, exemption based on armed forces
18 or militia service, pardons, and/or prior jury service must be attached.

19 (b) A juror qualification form for a county may include other questions as the
20 county’s jury plan requires.

21 9–501.

22 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

23 (8) “Veteran” [means a person who served on active duty in the uniformed
24 services of the United States, other than for training, and was discharged or released under
25 conditions other than dishonorable] HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
26 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

27 Article – Criminal Law

28 1–101.
END OF PAGE 8

START OF PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 1060 9

1 (a) In this article the following words have the meanings indicated.

2 (K) “VETERAN” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
3 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

4 4–111.

5 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

6 (8) “SERVICE MEMBER” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
7 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

8 [(8)] (9) “Special purpose area” means:

9 (i) a location licensed to sell or dispense alcohol or cannabis for
10 on–site consumption;

11 (ii) a stadium;

12 (iii) a museum;

13 (iv) an amusement park;

14 (v) a racetrack; or

15 (vi) a video lottery facility, as defined in § 9–1A–01 of the State
16 Government Article.

17 (b) This section does not apply to:

18 (3) a SERVICE member [of the armed forces of the United States, the
19 National Guard, or the uniformed services] on duty or traveling to or from duty;

20 8–303.

21 (a) (1) In this section[, “government] THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE
22 MEANINGS INDICATED.

23 (2) “GOVERNMENT identification document” means one of the following
24 documents issued by the United States government or any state or local government:

25 [(1)] (I) a passport;

26 [(2)] (II) an immigration visa;

27 [(3)] (III) an alien registration card;
END OF PAGE 9

START OF PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 [(4)] (IV) an employment authorization card;

2 [(5)] (V) a birth certificate;

3 [(6)] (VI) a Social Security card;

4 [(7)] (VII) a [military] UNIFORMED SERVICES identification;

5 [(8)] (VIII) an adoption decree;

6 [(9)] (IX) a marriage license;

7 [(10)] (X) a driver’s license; or

8 [(11)] (XI) a photo identification card.

9 (3) “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901
10 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

11 Article – Family Law

12 1–101.

13 (a) In this article the following words have the meanings indicated.

14 (J) “RESERVE COMPONENT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
15 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

16 (K) “SERVICE MEMBER” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
17 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

18 [(j)] (L) “State” means, except in Title 10, Subtitle 3 of this article:

19 (1) a state, commonwealth, possession, or territory of the United States; or

20 (2) the District of Columbia.

21 [(k)] (M) “Summons” includes a subpoena.

22 [(l)] (N) “Support” includes maintenance.

23 (O) “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
24 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.
END OF PAGE 10

START OF PAGE 11
HOUSE BILL 1060 11

1 2–405.

2 (d) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a license is not
3 effective until 6 a.m. on the second calendar day after the license is issued.

4 (2) For good cause shown, a judge of the circuit court for the county in
5 which the application is made may sign an authorization for a license to become effective
6 at a time before the waiting period expires, as stated in the authorization, if 1 of the parties
7 to be married is:

8 (i) a resident of this State; or

9 (ii) a SERVICE member [of the United States armed forces].

10 5–525.

11 (b) (3) (i) The Administration shall establish a program of out–of–home
12 placement for former CINAs:

13 1. whose commitment to a local department was rescinded
14 after the individuals reached the age of 18 years but before the individuals reached the age
15 of 20 years and 6 months; and

16 2. who did not exit foster care due to reunification, adoption,
17 guardianship, marriage, or [military duty] SERVICE IN THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
18 UNIFORMED SERVICES DUTY.

19 9–108.

20 (a) (1) In this section[:

21 (1)], “deployment” means compliance with [military] OFFICIAL orders
22 received by a SERVICE member [of the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps,
23 Space Force, Coast Guard, National Guard, or any other Reserve component] to report for
24 combat operations or other active service for which the SERVICE member is required to
25 report unaccompanied by any family member or that is classified by the SERVICE member’s
26 branch as remote[; and].

27 (2) [“deployment”] “DEPLOYMENT” does not include [National Guard or
28 Reserve] RESERVE COMPONENT annual training, inactive duty days, or drill weekends.

29 Article – General Provisions

30 1–101.1.
END OF PAGE 11

START OF PAGE 12
12 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 “ACTIVE DUTY” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
2 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

3 1–101.2.

4 “ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
5 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

6 1–103.1.

7 “ARMED FORCES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
8 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

9 1–114.1.

10 “RESERVE COMPONENT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
11 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

12 1–114.2.

13 “SERVICE MEMBER” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
14 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

15 1–116.

16 “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
17 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

18 1–117.

19 (A) “VETERAN” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
20 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

21 (B) With respect to any State program of benefits, rights, or privileges applicable
22 to a veteran under this Code, “veteran” includes[, if the individual is eligible under 38
23 U.S.C. § 101, a member of the commissioned corps of:

24 (1) the Public Health Service; or

25 (2) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or its
26 predecessor, the Coast and Geodetic Survey] AN INDIVIDUAL WHO MEETS THE
27 DEFINITION OF “VETERAN” UNDER § 9–901 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

28 Article – Public Safety
END OF PAGE 12

START OF PAGE 13
HOUSE BILL 1060 13

1 1–101.

2 (a) In this article the following words have the meanings indicated.

3 (A–1) “ACTIVE DUTY” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
4 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

5 (A–2) “ARMED FORCES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
6 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

7 (D–1) “RESERVE COMPONENT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
8 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

9 (F) “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
10 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

11 (G) “VETERAN” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE
12 GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

13 1–202.

14 (a–1) For purposes of this section, an individual served in the Afghanistan or Iraq
15 conflict if the individual was a member of the uniformed services [of the United States]
16 who served in:

17 (1) Afghanistan or contiguous air space, as defined in federal regulations,
18 on or after October 24, 2001, and before a terminal date to be prescribed by the United
19 States Secretary of Defense; or

20 (2) Iraq or contiguous waters or air space, as defined in federal regulations,
21 on or after March 19, 2003, and before a terminal date to be prescribed by the United States
22 Secretary of Defense.

23 (e) (1) The Secretary of State shall issue a State flag to the family of a
24 firefighter, policeman, member of the [military] UNIFORMED SERVICES, sworn member
25 of the office of State Fire Marshal, or professional or volunteer emergency medical services
26 provider who is killed in the performance of duty.

27 (2) (i) Except when the deceased is a member of the [military]
28 UNIFORMED SERVICES, the flag shall be presented to the family of the deceased by the
29 State Senator of the legislative district in which the deceased resided or served.

30 (ii) When the deceased is a member of the [military] UNIFORMED
31 SERVICES, the flag shall be presented to the family of the deceased by the Department of
32 Veterans and Military Families.
END OF PAGE 13

START OF PAGE 14
14 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 2–418.

2 (a) (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this
3 subsection, a police employee who resigns from the Department for any reason may not be
4 reappointed.

5 (2) A police employee who resigns to enter [military] service IN THE
6 UNIFORMED SERVICES may be reappointed.

7 3–209.

8 (a) The Commission shall certify as a police officer each individual who:

9 (5) (ii) subject to subsection (b) of this section, is a permanent legal
10 resident of the United States and [an honorably discharged] A veteran [of the United States
11 armed forces], provided that the individual has applied to obtain United States citizenship
12 and the application is still pending approval.

13 5–102.

14 This subtitle does not apply to:

15 (4) law enforcement personnel of any unit of the federal government,
16 members of the armed forces [of the United States] or the National Guard, or law
17 enforcement personnel of the State or any local agency in the State, while those personnel
18 or members are acting within the scope of their official duties;

19 5–103.

20 This subtitle does not affect:

21 (2) a sale, rental, transfer, or the use of a regulated firearm by a person
22 authorized or required to do so as part of the person’s duties as a member of:

23 (ii) the armed forces [of the United States], including all official
24 reserve organizations; or

25 5–117.1.

26 (a) This section does not apply to:

27 (3) a member or retired member of the armed forces [of the United States]
28 or the National Guard; or

29 (c) A person may purchase, rent, or receive a handgun only if the person:
END OF PAGE 14

START OF PAGE 15
HOUSE BILL 1060 15

1 (1) (iii) is an active or retired member of the armed forces [of the United
2 States] or the National Guard and possesses a valid [military] UNIFORMED SERVICES
3 identification card; or

4 5–132.

5 (b) This section does not apply to:

6 (1) the purchase, sale, or transportation of a handgun to or by a federally
7 licensed gun dealer or manufacturer that provides or services a handgun for:

8 (ii) members of the armed forces [of the United States] or the
9 National Guard;

10 5–133.

11 (d) (2) Unless a person is otherwise prohibited from possessing a regulated
12 firearm, this subsection does not apply to:

13 (iii) a member of the armed forces [of the United States] or the
14 National Guard while performing official duties;

15 5–134.

16 (c) A person is not required to complete a certified firearms safety training course
17 under subsection (b)(14) of this section if the person:

18 (3) is a member, retired member, or honorably discharged member of the
19 armed forces [of the United States] or the National Guard;

20 5–137.

21 (b) If a person purchases a regulated firearm for use within the scope of the
22 person’s official duties, the Secretary may waive the 7–day waiting period under § 5–124 of
23 this subtitle for:

24 (2) members of the armed forces [of the United States] or the National
25 Guard; or

26 5–203.

27 (a) A person may not possess a short–barreled rifle or short–barreled shotgun
28 unless:

29 (1) the person, while on official business is:
END OF PAGE 15

START OF PAGE 16
16 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 (ii) a member of the armed forces [of the United States] or the
2 National Guard while on duty or traveling to or from duty;

3 5–204.1.

4 (a) This section does not apply to:

5 (1) a sale, rental, or transfer:

6 (iii) involving law enforcement personnel of any unit of the federal
7 government, a member of the armed forces [of the United States], a member of the National
8 Guard, or law enforcement personnel of the State or any local agency in the State, while
9 acting in the scope of official duty;

10 5–306.

11 (a) Subject to subsections (c) and (d) of this section, the Secretary shall issue a
12 permit within a reasonable time to a person who the Secretary finds:

13 (1) (ii) is a person who is a member of [the armed forces of the United
14 States, the National Guard, or] the uniformed services OR THE NATIONAL GUARD;

15 (b) An applicant for a permit is not required to complete a certified firearms
16 training course under subsection (a) of this section if the applicant:

17 (2) is a member, retired member, or honorably discharged member of the
18 armed forces [of the United States] or the National Guard;

19 11–105.

20 (c) This section does not apply to the armed forces [of the United States], the
21 National Guard, the State Guard, or officers or employees of the United States, the State,
22 or a local subdivision of the State who are authorized to handle explosives in the
23 performance of their duties.

24 13–205.

25 Subject to the provisions of this title and the regulations governing the armed forces
26 [of the United States], an individual may be enlisted in the organized militia if the
27 individual:

28 (1) is a citizen of the State or has declared an intention to become a citizen
29 of the State;

30 (2) is able–bodied; and
END OF PAGE 16

START OF PAGE 17
HOUSE BILL 1060 17

1 (3) has good character and temperate habits.

2 13–215.

3 (a) (1) The Adjutant General may organize a uniformed honor guard from the
4 National Guard or the organized militia to attend the burial service of a deceased veteran
5 if:

6 (i) the commander of an accredited veterans’ organization or a
7 relative or friend of the deceased veteran requests an honor guard to attend the burial
8 service;

9 (ii) a uniformed honor guard from the active [armed forces]
10 UNIFORMED SERVICES or veterans’ organization is not available; and

11 (iii) the Adjutant General determines that providing an honor guard
12 will not harm:

13 1. the readiness of the National Guard in the event of a State
14 or federal emergency; or

15 2. the employment of a National Guard member.

16 (2) If an honor guard from the active [armed forces] UNIFORMED
17 SERVICES is not available, the Adjutant General may request an honor guard from a
18 veterans’ organization to attend the burial service of a deceased veteran.

19 13–503.

20 (b) An individual may not be commissioned or enlisted in the Maryland Defense
21 Force if the individual:

22 (2) has been dismissed from or received a bad conduct discharge or a
23 dishonorable discharge, or any discharge other than under honorable conditions, from a
24 military or naval organization of this State or of another state, or from any of the [United
25 States armed forces] UNIFORMED SERVICES or its auxiliaries, or has been convicted of an
26 offense under the laws of the United States or of any state punishable by imprisonment for
27 more than 1 year, no matter what punishment was actually imposed; or

28 13–510.

29 (b) (1) Each individual commissioned or appointed as an officer or warrant
30 officer [shall] MUST be:

31 (i) an officer, warrant officer, or enlisted individual of the National
32 Guard;
END OF PAGE 17

START OF PAGE 18
18 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 (ii) a retired or former officer or warrant officer of the [United States
2 Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Space Force, or Coast Guard] UNIFORMED
3 SERVICES or any auxiliary thereof;

4 (iii) an individual with prior [enlisted] service in the [United States
5 Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Space Force, or Coast Guard,] UNIFORMED
6 SERVICES or [any auxiliary thereof] A RESERVE COMPONENT;

7 (iv) a graduate of the United States Military Academy, Naval
8 Academy, Coast Guard Academy, Merchant Marine Academy, [or] Air Force Academy, OR
9 UNIFORMED SERVICES UNIVERSITY;

10 (v) a graduate of a school, college, university, or officers’ training
11 school who received [military] instruction under the supervision of an officer of the [United
12 States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Space Force, or Coast Guard] UNIFORMED
13 SERVICES who certified the graduate’s fitness for appointment as a commissioned officer;
14 or

15 (vi) an individual not otherwise identified in items (i) through (v) of
16 this paragraph who is specially qualified for service by achievement in any professional,
17 technical, or public service capacity or otherwise displays extraordinary qualifications for
18 commissioning as an officer of the Maryland Defense Force.

19 (c) When initially appointed, a general officer or colonel of the organized militia
20 must:

21 (2) have served in [any component or auxiliary of the United States Army,
22 Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Space Force, or Coast Guard or National Guard] THE
23 UNIFORMED SERVICES OR A RESERVE COMPONENT with the grade of O–4 or higher.

24 (d) When initially appointed, a lieutenant–colonel or major of the line must have
25 had service as an officer for at least 2 years in [any component or auxiliary of the United
26 States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Space Force, or Coast Guard or National
27 Guard] THE UNIFORMED SERVICES OR A RESERVE COMPONENT.

28 13–601.

29 (a) (2) The Governor may grant a brevet commission to an officer of the
30 organized militia of a grade equal to the highest grade in which the officer previously served
31 in the organized militia or in the [United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force,
32 Space Force, or Coast Guard] ARMED FORCES.

33 13–704.1.
END OF PAGE 18

START OF PAGE 19
HOUSE BILL 1060 19

1 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

2 (2) “ELIGIBLE SERVICE MEMBER” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL ENGAGED
3 IN MILITARY SERVICE.

4 (3) “ELIGIBLE SPOUSE” MEANS THE SPOUSE OF AN ELIGIBLE
5 SERVICE MEMBER.

6 [(2)] (4) “Military service” means:

7 (i) in the case of [a service member] AN INDIVIDUAL who is a
8 member or reserve member of the [Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, or
9 Coast Guard] ARMED FORCES, full–time duty in the active military service [of the United
10 States], including:

11 1. full–time training duty;

12 2. annual training duty; and

13 3. attendance while at a school designated as a service school
14 by federal law or by the secretary of the military department concerned;

15 (ii) in the case of a resident of the State who is a member [or reserve
16 member of the Maryland National Guard, the National Guard of another state, or] OF a
17 reserve component of the [armed forces] UNIFORMED SERVICES, service under a call to:

18 1. active service authorized by the President of the United
19 States [or], the Secretary of Defense, OR THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
20 SERVICES for a period of more than 30 days in response to a national emergency declared
21 by the President of the United States; or

22 2. active duty for a period of more than 30 consecutive days;

23 (iii) in the case of [a service member] AN INDIVIDUAL who is a
24 commissioned officer of the Public Health Service or the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
25 Administration, active service; or

26 (iv) any period during which [a service member] AN INDIVIDUAL is
27 absent from duty on account of sickness, wounds, leave, or other lawful cause.

28 [(3) “Military spouse” means the spouse of a service member.

29 (4) “Service member” means an individual engaged in military service.]
END OF PAGE 19

START OF PAGE 20
20 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 (b) This section is intended to supplement rights and protections provided in the
2 federal Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501 et seq.).

3 (c) (1) In addition to the rights and protections regarding consumer
4 transactions, contracts, and service providers included in Title III of the federal
5 Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 531 through 538), [a] AN ELIGIBLE
6 service member or [military] ELIGIBLE spouse may terminate a contract described in
7 paragraph (2) of this subsection at any time after the date the ELIGIBLE service member
8 receives [military] OFFICIAL orders to relocate for a period of military service of at least
9 90 days to a location where the ELIGIBLE service member would be unable to use the
10 services under the contract.

11 (2) This section applies to a contract to provide any of the following:

12 (i) telecommunication services;

13 (ii) Internet services;

14 (iii) television services;

15 (iv) athletic club or gym memberships; and

16 (v) satellite radio services.

17 (3) (i) [A] AN ELIGIBLE service member or [military] ELIGIBLE
18 spouse may terminate a contract under this section by delivering a written or electronic
19 notice of the termination and a copy of the ELIGIBLE service member’s [military]
20 OFFICIAL orders to the service provider.

21 (ii) If [a] AN ELIGIBLE service member or [military] ELIGIBLE
22 spouse terminates a contract, the service provider shall provide the ELIGIBLE service
23 member or [military] ELIGIBLE spouse with a written or electronic notice of the ELIGIBLE
24 service member’s rights posted on the Maryland National Guard’s Internet website.

25 (d) (1) If [a] AN ELIGIBLE service member or [military] ELIGIBLE spouse
26 terminates or suspends the provision of services under this section and the ELIGIBLE
27 service member is no longer in [active] military service, the ELIGIBLE service member or
28 [military] ELIGIBLE spouse may reinstate the provision of service on the same terms and
29 conditions as originally agreed to with the service provider before the termination or
30 suspension on written notice to the provider that the ELIGIBLE service member is no longer
31 in [active] military service.

32 (2) Written notice under this subsection shall be given within 90 days after
33 termination of the ELIGIBLE service member’s [active] military service.
END OF PAGE 20

START OF PAGE 21
HOUSE BILL 1060 21

1 (e) [A] AN ELIGIBLE service member or [military] ELIGIBLE spouse who
2 terminates, suspends, or reinstates the provision of services under this section:

3 (1) may not be charged a penalty, fee, loss of deposit, or any other
4 additional cost because of the termination, suspension, or reinstatement; and

5 (2) is not liable for payment for any services after the effective date of the
6 termination or suspension, until the effective date of any reinstatement of services.

7 13–902.

8 (a) This section does not apply to a member of the [United States Army, Navy,
9 Air Force, Marines, Space Force, or Coast Guard] UNIFORMED SERVICES, the organized
10 militia of this State or another state, an officer of the Maryland Defense Force, or a member
11 of associations wholly composed of [soldiers] SERVICE MEMBERS, AS DEFINED IN §
12 9–901 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, honorably discharged from the [armed
13 forces of the United States] UNIFORMED SERVICES.

14 13–904.

15 (a) A person who is the owner or who is an agent of the owner of a place of
16 amusement or recreation open to the public may not refuse admission to an officer or
17 enlisted individual of the [United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Space
18 Force, or Air Force] UNIFORMED SERVICES or the organized militia of this State or of
19 another state because the officer or enlisted individual is in uniform.

20 13A–101.

21 (a) In this title, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words have
22 the meanings indicated.

23 (k) “Judge advocate” means a commissioned officer of the organized state military
24 forces who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a state:

25 (1) (i) certified or designated as a judge advocate in the Judge Advocate
26 General’s Corps of the [Army, Air Force, Navy, Space Force, or the Marine Corps] ARMED
27 FORCES or designated as a law specialist as an officer of the Coast Guard, or a reserve
28 component of one of these; or

29 13A–506.

30 (c) In the instance when a defense counsel is not a member of the bar of the
31 highest court of the state, the defense counsel shall be deemed admitted pro hac vice,
32 subject to filing a certificate with the military judge setting forth the qualifications that
33 counsel is:
END OF PAGE 21

START OF PAGE 22
22 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 (1) (i) a commissioned officer of the armed forces [of the United States]
2 or a component thereof;

3 13A–1009.

4 (a) A member of the State military forces is guilty of desertion if the member:

5 (3) without being regularly separated from one of the State military forces:

6 (i) enlists or accepts an appointment in the same or another one of
7 the State military forces, or in one of the [armed forces of the United States] UNIFORMED
8 SERVICES, without fully disclosing the fact that the member has not been regularly
9 separated; or

10 13A–1041.

11 (b) The substances referred to in subsection (a) of this section are:

12 (2) any substance not specified in item (1) of this subsection that is listed
13 on a schedule of controlled substances prescribed by the President for the purposes of the
14 Uniform Code of Military Justice of the armed forces [of the United States], 10 U.S.C. §
15 801 et seq.; and

16 13A–1102.

17 (b) The following persons may administer oaths necessary in the performance of
18 their duties:

19 (6) all other persons designated by regulations of the armed forces [of the
20 United States] or by statute.

21 14–101.

22 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

23 (d) (2) “Emergency management” does not include the preparation for and
24 carrying out of functions in an emergency for which [military forces] THE UNIFORMED
25 SERVICES are primarily responsible.

26 Article – Real Property

27 8–212.1.

28 (a) (1) In this section[, “change] THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE
29 MEANINGS INDICATED.
END OF PAGE 22

START OF PAGE 23
HOUSE BILL 1060 23

1 (2) “ACTIVE DUTY” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901 OF THE
2 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

3 (3) “ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER” MEANS “SERVICE MEMBER” AS
4 DEFINED IN § 9–901 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

5 (4) “CHANGE of assignment” includes:

6 [(1)] (I) Permanent change of station orders;

7 [(2)] (II) Temporary duty orders for a period exceeding 90 days;

8 [(3)] (III) Orders requiring a person to move into quarters located on a
9 military installation; and

10 [(4)] (IV) A release from active duty, including:

11 [(i)] 1. Retirement;

12 [(ii)] 2. Separation or discharge under honorable conditions; and

13 [(iii)] 3. Demobilization of an activated [reservist or a member of
14 the National Guard] MEMBER OF A RESERVE COMPONENT who was serving on active
15 duty orders for at least 180 consecutive days.

16 (5) “RESERVE COMPONENT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 9–901
17 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

18 (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, if [a person who is on active
19 duty with the United States military, or the person’s] AN ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER OR
20 THE ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER’S spouse[,] enters into a residential lease of property and
21 the [person] ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER subsequently receives a change of assignment,
22 before or after occupying the property, any liability of the [person, or the person’s] ACTIVE
23 SERVICE MEMBER OR THE ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER’S spouse, for rent under the lease
24 may not exceed:

25 (1) Any rent or lawful charges then due and payable plus 30 days’ rent after
26 written notice and proof of the change of assignment is given to the landlord; and

27 (2) The cost of repairing damage to the premises caused by an act or
28 omission of the tenant.

29 Article – State Government

30 9–901.
END OF PAGE 23

START OF PAGE 24
24 HOUSE BILL 1060

1 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

2 (B) “ACTIVE DUTY” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN 37 U.S.C. § 101.

3 (C) “ACTIVE SERVICE MEMBER” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS:

4 (1) AN ACTIVE DUTY MEMBER OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES; OR

5 (2) SERVING IN A RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE UNIFORMED
6 SERVICES ON ACTIVE DUTY ORDERS.

7 (D) “ARMED FORCES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN 10 U.S.C. § 101.

8 [(b)] (E) “Board” means the Board of Trustees of the Maryland Veterans Trust.

9 [(c)] (F) “Department” means the Department of Veterans and Military
10 Families.

11 (G) “MILITARY FAMILY” INCLUDES THE SPOUSE AND DEPENDENT
12 CHILDREN OF A SERVICE MEMBER OR VETERAN RELATED BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE, OR
13 ADOPTION.

14 (H) “RESERVE COMPONENT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN 37 U.S.C. § 101.

15 [(d)] (I) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Veterans and Military Families.

16 (J) “SERVICE MEMBER” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS A MEMBER OF:

17 (1) THE UNIFORMED SERVICES; OR

18 (2) A RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.

19 [(e)] (K) “Trust” means the Maryland Veterans Trust.

20 (L) “UNIFORMED SERVICES” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN 37 U.S.C. § 101.

21 [(f)] (M) Except as otherwise provided [in this subtitle], “veteran” [means an
22 individual who served on active duty in the armed forces of the United States, other than
23 for training, and was discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable] HAS
24 THE MEANING STATED IN 38 U.S.C. § 101.

25 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
26 October 1, 2025.
END OF PAGE 24

START OF PAGE 25
HOUSE BILL 1060 25

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 25