START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1116

E4, D4 (5lr2917)
ENROLLED BILL
— Judiciary/Judicial Proceedings —
Introduced by Delegate Healey

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Public Safety – State Clearinghouse for Missing Persons

3 FOR the purpose of renaming and transferring the State Clearinghouse for Missing
4 Children to be the State Clearinghouse for Missing Persons; requiring the
5 Department of State Police to report on the Department’s ability to report certain
6 missing persons information to the National Missing and Unidentified Persons
7 System on or before a certain date; and generally relating to the State Clearinghouse
8 for Missing Persons.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments, and transferring
10 Article – Family Law
11 Section 9–403
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)
14 to be

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1116*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1116

1 Article – Public Safety
2 Section 3–609
3 Annotated Code of Maryland
4 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

5 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
6 That Section(s) 9–403 of Article – Family Law of the Annotated Code of Maryland be
7 repealed and reenacted, with amendments, and transferred to be Section(s) 3–609 of Article
8 – Public Safety of the Annotated Code of Maryland, to read as follows:

9 Article – Public Safety

10 3–609.

11 (a) There is a State Clearinghouse for Missing [Children] PERSONS operated by
12 the Department of State Police that is responsible for:

13 (1) the receipt, collection, and distribution of general information and
14 annual statistics regarding missing [children] PERSONS; and

15 (2) coordination of law enforcement agencies and other interested
16 [persons] INDIVIDUALS or groups within and outside the State regarding information on
17 [children] PERSONS who have disappeared from, or are thought to be located in, Maryland.

18 (b) For [children] PERSONS who have disappeared from or are thought to be
19 located in the State, the State Clearinghouse for Missing [Children] PERSONS:

20 (1) shall publish:

21 (i) the names of and relevant available information on missing
22 [children] PERSONS; and

23 (ii) annual statistics regarding missing [children] PERSONS; and

24 (2) may establish and maintain a list of organizations and groups that
25 provide volunteer search teams or resources relating to missing [children] PERSONS.

26 (c) The Secretary of State Police may develop, in cooperation with local law
27 enforcement agencies, a plan for voluntary fingerprinting programs for children.

28 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

29 (a) The Department of State Police shall study the Department’s capacity to report
30 to the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System information about persons who
31 have disappeared from, or thought to be located in, Maryland.
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1116 3

1 (b) On or before December 1, 2025, the Department of State Police shall report its
2 findings to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article,
3 the General Assembly.

4 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
5 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 3