PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1152

N1 (5lr3387)
ENROLLED BILL
— Environment and Transportation/Judicial Proceedings —
Introduced by ~~Delegate~~ ~~Stein~~ Delegates Stein, Allen, Behler, Guyton, Healey, Ruth,
and Terrasa

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Real Property – Residential Rental Property – Pet Policy Disclosure
3 (Pet Policy Transparency Act)

4 FOR the purpose of requiring ~~the~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ the landlord of a ~~a~~ residential rental property
5 to provide the property’s pet policy on the property’s website, ~~in~~ ~~digital~~
6 ~~advertisements,~~ ~~in~~ ~~certain~~ ~~search~~ ~~engines,~~ and as part of an application for a rental
7 unit on the property; and generally relating to pet policies in residential rental
8 property.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Real Property
11 Section 8–210
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1152*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1152

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Real Property

4 8–210.

5 (a) (1) The landlord of any residential rental property shall include in a
6 written lease or post a sign in a conspicuous place on that property listing the name,
7 address, and telephone number of:

8 (i) The landlord; or

9 (ii) The person, if any, authorized to accept notice or service of
10 process on behalf of the landlord.

11 (2) If a landlord fails to comply with paragraph (1) of this subsection, notice
12 or service of process shall be deemed to be proper if the tenant sends notice or service of
13 process by any of the following means:

14 (i) To the person to whom the rent is paid;

15 (ii) To the address where the rent is paid; or

16 (iii) To the address where the tax bill is sent.

17 (b) (1) This subsection applies only in Montgomery County.

18 (2) In this subsection, “development” has the meaning provided in §
19 11B–101 of this article.

20 (3) (i) Before execution by a tenant of a lease for an initial term of 125
21 days or more, the owner of any residential rental property within any condominium or
22 development shall provide to the prospective tenant, to the extent applicable, a copy of the
23 rules, declaration, and recorded covenants and restrictions that limit or affect the use and
24 occupancy of the property or common areas and to which the owner is obligated.

25 (ii) The written lease shall include a statement, if applicable, that
26 the obligations of the owner that limit or affect the use and occupancy of the property are
27 enforceable against the owner’s tenant.

(C) (1) ~~THIS~~28 ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~APPLIES~~ ~~ONLY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~LANDLORD~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~OWNS~~ ~~OR~~
~~STATE.~~29 ~~OPERATES~~ ~~FIVE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~DWELLING~~ ~~UNITS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1152 3

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~A~~ THE1 LANDLORD OF ANY RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY
SHALL:2 ~~OF~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~RESIDENTIAL~~ ~~RENTAL~~ ~~PROPERTY~~

(I) PROVIDE PROPERTY’S POLICY:3 A LINK TO THE PET

~~1.~~ ~~ON~~ ~~IF~~ ~~APPLICABLE,~~ PROPERTY’S WEBSITE,4 ON THE IF
APPLICABLE;5

~~2.~~ ~~IN~~6 ~~ANY~~ ~~DIGITAL~~ ~~ADVERTISEMENT~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LANDLORD~~
~~PROPERTY;~~7 ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~3.~~ ~~IN~~8 ~~ANY~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESIDENTIAL~~
~~LANDLORD;~~9 ~~RENTAL~~ ~~SEARCH~~ ~~ENGINE~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ AND

(II) PROVIDE10 A WRITTEN COPY OR SUMMARY OF THE
PROPERTY’S11 PET POLICY IN ANY RENTAL APPLICATION FORM FOR A UNIT IN THE
PROPERTY.12

~~(2)~~ ~~(3)~~ (2) A13 PET POLICY PROVIDED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS
STATE:14 SECTION SHALL

(I) ANY RESTRICTIONS;15 BREED AND WEIGHT

(II) ANY FEES, INCLUDING:16 REQUIRED

1. UP–FRONT, FEES;17 NONREFUNDABLE PET

2. REFUNDABLE DEPOSITS;18 PET AND

3. MONTHLY FEES;19 PET

(III) ANY UNIT;20 LIMIT ON THE NUMBER OF PETS ALLOWED IN A

(IV) ANY REQUIREMENTS;21 VACCINATION

(V) ANY REQUIREMENTS;22 LIABILITY INSURANCE AND

(VI) ANY23 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PET OWNERS
LANDLORD.24 IMPOSED BY THE

25 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
26 October 1, 2025.