PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1145

A2 5lr2667

By: ~~Delegate~~ ~~Ebersole~~ Baltimore County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: February 5, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Baltimore County – Alcoholic Beverages – Waiting Period After License Denial

3 FOR the purpose of establishing in Baltimore County certain waiting periods for the
4 application for or issuance of an alcoholic beverages license if an application for a
5 license at that location has previously been denied; and generally relating to
6 alcoholic beverages in Baltimore County.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
8 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
9 Section 4–214 and 13–102
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2024 Replacement Volume)

12 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
13 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
14 Section 13–1501(b)
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2024 Replacement Volume)

17 BY adding to
18 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
19 Section 13–1506
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2024 Replacement Volume)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1145*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1145

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

4 4–214.

5 (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section:

6 (1) if a license is denied, another license application may not be considered
7 from the same applicant or for the same location for 6 months after the denial; and

8 (2) if a subsequent application by the same applicant or for the same
9 location is denied within a 2–year period immediately after the first denial, another
10 application may not be considered from that applicant or for that location until the 2–year
11 period expires.

12 (b) This section does not apply to:

13 (1) an applicant, if the license was denied because it was not necessary to
14 accommodate the public or the location was not suitable for the sale of alcoholic beverages;
15 or

16 (2) the location, if the license was denied because the local licensing board
17 determined that the applicant was not a proper person to be issued the license.

18 13–102.

19 This title applies only in Baltimore County.

20 13–1501.

21 (b) The following sections of Title 4, Subtitle 2 (“Issuance or Denial of Local
22 Licenses”) of Division I of this article apply in the county:

23 (1) § 4–202 (“Authority of local licensing boards”), subject to § 13–1502 of
24 this subtitle;

25 (2) § 4–203 (“Prohibition against issuing multiple licenses to individual or
26 for use of entity”), subject to § 13–1503 of this subtitle and Subtitle 13, Part III of this title;

27 (3) § 4–204 (“Prohibition against issuing multiple licenses for same
28 premises”), subject to Subtitle 13, Part III and Subtitle 16, Part II of this title;

29 (4) § 4–208 (“Notice of license application required”), subject to § 13–1504
30 of this subtitle; and

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1145 3

1 (5) § 4–214 (“Waiting periods after denial of license applications”), subject
[§ 13–1505] §§ 13–1505 13–15062 to of this subtitle.AND

13–1506.3

(A) IF DENIED,4 A LICENSE APPLICATION IS ANOTHER LICENSE
15 APPLICATION FOR THE SAME LOCATION MAY NOT BE MADE FOR YEAR AFTER THE
DENIAL.6

(B) IF TWICE,7 A LICENSE APPLICATION FOR A LOCATION IS DENIED A
28 LICENSE MAY NOT BE ISSUED FOR THE SAME LOCATION FOR YEARS AFTER THE
DENIAL.9 SECOND

10 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
11 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.