PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1126

K2 5lr2611

By: Delegates Ruff, Addison, Amprey, Conaway, Crutchfield, Embry, Kaufman,
R. Lewis, Mireku–North, Smith, Solomon, Wims, and Wolek
Introduced and read first time: February 5, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 14, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Unemployment Insurance – Child Support Arrearage to Work Pilot Program –
3 Established

4 FOR the purpose of establishing a Child Support Arrearage to Work Pilot Program within
5 the Department of Labor to connect individuals who are unemployed and in arrears
6 under a child support order with employment opportunities in the State; and
7 generally relating to the establishment of the Child Support Arrearage to Work Pilot
8 Program.

9 BY adding to
10 Article – Labor and Employment
11 Section 8–311.3
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Labor and Employment

8–311.3.17

(A) IN SECTION, “PROGRAM” CHILD SUPPORT18 THIS MEANS THE
ARREARAGE WORK PILOT PROGRAM.19 TO

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1126*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1126

(B) THERE CHILD SUPPORT ARREARAGE WORK PILOT PROGRAM1 IS A TO
DEPARTMENT.2 IN THE

(C) THE PROGRAM3 PURPOSE OF THE IS TO CONNECT INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
4 UNEMPLOYED AND IN ARREARS UNDER A CHILD SUPPORT ORDER WITH
STATE,5 EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES IN THE INCLUDING EMPLOYMENT
STATE GOVERNMENT.6 OPPORTUNITIES IN

(D) THE DEPARTMENT, DEPARTMENT7 IN CONSULTATION WITH THE OF
HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT BUDGET MANAGEMENT, SHALL:8 AND THE OF AND

(1) PROGRAM;9 IMPLEMENT THE AND

(2)10 ESTABLISH THE PROCEDURES AND SAFEGUARDS NECESSARY TO
PROGRAM11 SECURELY SHARE INFORMATION RELATED TO THE AND PARTICIPANTS IN
PROGRAM.12 THE

(E) THE DEPARTMENT13 MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS
SECTION.14

(F) ON JULY 1, 2026, DEPARTMENT15 OR BEFORE THE SHALL REPORT TO THE
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT16 IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY, DEPARTMENT’S17 THE ON THE FINDINGS AND ANY
PROGRAM.18 RECOMMENDATIONS RELATED TO THE CONTINUATION OF THE

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
20 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 1 year and, at the end of June 30, 2026, this
21 Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no
22 further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.