PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1148

C4 (5lr3090)
ENROLLED BILL
— Economic Matters/Finance —
Introduced by Delegates Wivell, Baker, Hinebaugh, and Valentine

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 ~~Property~~ ~~and~~ ~~Casualty~~ ~~Homeowner’s~~ ~~and~~ ~~Renter’s~~ Residential Condominium
3 Unit Insurance – Lapses in Coverage – Prohibition on Denial

4 FOR the purpose of prohibiting ~~a~~ ~~property~~ ~~and~~ ~~casualty~~ an insurer, with respect to
5 ~~homeowner’s~~ ~~insurance~~ ~~or~~ ~~renter’s~~ residential condominium unit insurance, from
6 ~~denying~~ ~~coverage~~ ~~based~~ refusing to issue a policy based solely on a prior lapse in
7 coverage of the applicant under certain circumstances; ~~authorizing~~ ~~a~~ ~~property~~ ~~and~~
8 ~~casualty~~ ~~insurer~~ ~~to~~ ~~require~~ ~~an~~ ~~applicant~~ ~~to~~ ~~submit~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~affidavit;~~ and generally
9 relating to ~~property~~ ~~and~~ ~~casualty~~ ~~homeowner’s~~ ~~and~~ ~~renter’s~~ residential condominium
10 unit insurance.

11 BY adding to
12 Article – Insurance
13 Section 27–501(u)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1148*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1148

1 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

2 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
3 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

4 Article – Insurance

5 27–501.

(U) ~~(1)~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~HOMEOWNER’S~~6 ~~RESPECT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PROPERTY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~CASUALTY~~
~~RENTER’S~~ ~~INSURANCE,~~7 ~~INSURANCE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INSURER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~DENY~~ ~~COVERAGE~~
8 ~~BASED~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~ ~~PRIOR~~ ~~LAPSE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~COVERAGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LAPSE~~ ~~IN~~
~~WAS:~~9 ~~COVERAGE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~APPLICANT;~~10 ~~DUE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CHOICE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~(II)~~11 ~~NOT~~ ~~DUE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~LOSSES~~ ~~INCURRED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CLAIMS~~ ~~HISTORY~~
~~APPLICANT.~~12 ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~AN~~13 ~~INSURER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~REQUIRE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~SUBMIT~~ ~~AN~~
14 ~~AFFIDAVIT~~ ~~STATING~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~DID~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~INCUR~~ ~~A~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~DURING~~ ~~THE~~
IF15 ~~PRIOR~~ ~~LAPSE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~COVERAGE~~ AN APPLICANT FOR RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM
APPLICANT’S16 UNIT INSURANCE EXPERIENCES A LAPSE IN COVERAGE OF THE PRIOR
INSURER’S17 RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM UNIT DUE TO AN WITHDRAWAL FROM THE
MARKET,18 AN INSURER FROM WHOM THE APPLICANT SEEKS NEW RESIDENTIAL
19 CONDOMINIUM UNIT COVERAGE MAY NOT REFUSE TO ISSUE A POLICY BASED SOLELY
APPLICANT’S IF:20 ON THE LAPSE IN COVERAGE ON THE UNIT

(1) 90 DAYS;21 THE LAPSE IN COVERAGE WAS FOR NOT LONGER THAN

(2) INSURER,22 IF REQUIRED BY THE NEW THE APPLICANT PROVIDES AN
23 AFFIDAVIT THAT THE APPLICANT HAS NOT INCURRED ANY LOSSES DURING THE
COVERAGE;24 LAPSE IN AND

(3)25 THE APPLICANT PROVIDES ANY OTHER DOCUMENTATION
INSURER.26 REQUIRED BY THE

27 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section 1 of this Act shall
28 apply to new residential condominium unit insurance policies issued on or after January 1,
29 2026.

30 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
31 October 1, 2025.