PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1155

M3, M1 5lr2029
CF SB 722

By: Delegate Stein
Introduced and read first time: February 6, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Department of the Environment – Definition of Ecological Restoration

3 FOR the purpose of defining the term “ecological restoration” as an activity undertaken
4 with the goal of recovering, re–establishing, or enhancing a degraded, damaged, or
5 destroyed ecosystem through certain measures; ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~
6 ~~Environment~~ ~~to~~ ~~update~~ ~~certain~~ ~~regulations~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~ ~~circumstances~~ ~~to~~
7 ~~incorporate~~ ~~the~~ ~~definition~~ ~~of~~ ~~ecological~~ ~~restoration~~ ~~or~~ ~~be~~ ~~consistent~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~definition~~
8 ~~of~~ ~~ecological~~ ~~restoration;~~ and generally relating to ecological restoration.

9 BY adding to
10 Article – Environment
11 Section 1–1001 ~~and~~ ~~1–1002~~ to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 10. Ecological
12 Restoration”
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2013 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

15 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
16 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

17 Article – Environment

SUBTITLE 10. ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION.18

1–1001.19

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1155*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1155

IN SUBTITLE, “ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION”1 THIS MEANS AN ACTIVITY
RECOVERING, RE–ESTABLISHING,2 UNDERTAKEN WITH THE GOAL OF OR ENHANCING
DEGRADED, DAMAGED, THROUGH:3 A OR DESTROYED ECOSYSTEM

(1) IMPROVEMENTS PHYSICAL, CHEMICAL,4 TO OR BIOLOGICAL
PROCESSES;5 CHARACTERISTICS OR

(2) RETURNING SERVICES;6 NATURAL OR HISTORICAL FUNCTIONS OR
7 OR

(3) PROTECTING RESILIENCY.8 OR IMPROVING

~~1–1002.~~9

~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~10 ~~SHALL~~ ~~UPDATE~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~RELEVANT~~ ~~REGULATION~~ ~~ADOPTED~~
~~TO,~~ ~~APPROPRIATE:~~11 ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~ARTICLE~~ ~~AS~~

~~(1)~~ ~~INCORPORATE~~ ~~RESTORATION;~~12 ~~THE~~ ~~DEFINITION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ECOLOGICAL~~
13 ~~OR~~

~~(2)~~ ~~BE~~14 ~~CONSISTENT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEFINITION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ECOLOGICAL~~
~~RESTORATION.~~15

16 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
17 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.