START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1142

J1, J3 (5lr2130)
ENROLLED BILL
— Health and Government Operations/Finance —
Introduced by ~~Delegate~~ ~~Bagnall~~ Delegates Bagnall, Pena–Melnyk, Cullison, Alston,
Bhandari, Chisholm, Guzzone, Hill, Hutchinson, S. Johnson, Kaiser, Kerr,
Kipke, Lopez, Martinez, M. Morgan, Reilly, Rosenberg, Szeliga, Taveras,
Woods, Woorman, and Ross

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Public Health – Maryland Interested Parties Advisory Group – Establishment

3 FOR the purpose of establishing the Maryland Interested Parties Advisory Group to ensure
4 adequate access to applicable home– and community–based services ~~and~~ ~~the~~
5 ~~existence~~ ~~of~~ ~~an~~ ~~adequate~~ ~~direct~~ ~~care~~ ~~workforce~~ in the State; requiring the Maryland
6 Department of Health to provide certain support to the Advisory Group; and
7 generally relating to the Maryland Interested Parties Advisory Group.

8 BY adding to
9 Article – Health – General
10 Section 15–1201 through 15–1205 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 12.
11 Maryland Interested Parties Advisory Group”

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1142*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1142

1 Annotated Code of Maryland
2 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

3 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
4 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

5 Article – Health – General

6 SUBTITLE 12. MARYLAND INTERESTED PARTIES ADVISORY GROUP.

7 15–1201.

8 (A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
9 INDICATED.

10 (B) “ADVISORY GROUP” MEANS THE MARYLAND INTERESTED PARTIES
11 ADVISORY GROUP ESTABLISHED UNDER § 15–1202 OF THIS SUBTITLE AND
12 REQUIRED UNDER 42 C.F.R. § 447.203.

13 (C) “APPLICABLE SERVICE CATEGORIES” MEANS HOMEMAKER SERVICES,
14 HOME HEALTH AIDE SERVICES, PERSONAL CARE SERVICES, AND HABILITATION
15 SERVICES.

16 (D) “CONSUMER” MEANS AN APPLICANT FOR, A RECIPIENT OF, OR AN
17 INDIVIDUAL ELIGIBLE FOR MEDICAID HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES,
18 OR THE INDIVIDUAL’S AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.

19 (E) “CONSUMER ORGANIZATION” MEANS A STATE OR LOCAL CONSUMER
20 ADVOCACY GROUP OR OTHER COMMUNITY–BASED ORGANIZATION THAT
21 REPRESENTS THE INTERESTS OF, OR PROVIDES DIRECT SERVICES TO, CONSUMERS
22 OF MEDICAID HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES.

23 (F) “DIRECT CARE WORKER” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL:

24 (1) EMPLOYED BY A MEDICAID PROVIDER, STATE AGENCY, OR THIRD
25 PARTY;

26 (2) WHO CONTRACTS WITH A MEDICAID PROVIDER, STATE AGENCY,
27 OR THIRD PARTY;

28 (3) DELIVERING SERVICES UNDER A SELF–DIRECTED SERVICES
29 DELIVERY MODEL; OR

30 (4) WHO IS PAID TO PROVIDE HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED
31 SERVICES THROUGH AN APPLICABLE SERVICE CATEGORY.
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1142 3

1 (G) “HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES” MEANS MEDICAID
2 HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES DELIVERED THROUGH THE STATE PLAN,
3 A WAIVER UNDER § 1915(C) OF THE FEDERAL SOCIAL SECURITY ACT, A MANAGED
4 CARE PROGRAM, OR OTHER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

5 (H) “PERSONAL CARE” HAS THE MEANING STATED UNDER § 19–301 OF THIS
6 ARTICLE.

7 (I) “PROVIDER ASSOCIATION” MEANS A TRADE ASSOCIATION EXEMPT
8 FROM FEDERAL INCOME TAXATION UNDER § 501(C)(6) OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE
9 CODE THAT REPRESENTS DIRECT CARE EMPLOYERS.

10 (J) “WORKER ORGANIZATION” MEANS AN ORGANIZATION THAT:

11 (1) IS EXEMPT FROM FEDERAL INCOME TAXATION UNDER §§
12 501(C)(3) THROUGH (6) OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE;

13 (2) IS NOT DOMINATED, CONTROLLED, OR FUNDED BY A DIRECT CARE
14 EMPLOYER; AND

15 (3) HAS AT LEAST 2 YEARS OF DEMONSTRATED EXPERIENCE
16 ENGAGING WITH AND ADVOCATING FOR DIRECT CARE WORKERS.

17 15–1202.

18 (A) THERE IS A MARYLAND INTERESTED PARTIES ADVISORY GROUP
19 WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT.

20 (B) THE PRIMARY PURPOSE OF THE ADVISORY GROUP IS TO ENSURE:

21 (1) ADVISE AND CONSULT ON MEDICAID PAYMENT RATES ARE
22 SUFFICIENT TO PROVIDE RATE SUFFICIENCY, ENSURING ADEQUATE ACCESS TO
23 APPLICABLE SERVICE CATEGORIES; AND

24 (2) THE EXISTENCE OF AN ADEQUATE AND QUALIFIED DIRECT CARE
25 WORKFORCE TO PROVIDE SERVICES IN THE STATE.

26 15–1203.

27 (A) THE ADVISORY GROUP CONSISTS OF:

28 (1) THE DEPUTY SECRETARY, OF HEALTH CARE FINANCING, OR THE
29 DEPUTY SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1142

1 (2) THE DIRECTOR OF THE MARYLAND MEDICAL ASSISTANCE
2 PROGRAM, OR THE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;

3 (3) (2) THE SECRETARY OF LABOR, OR THE SECRETARY’S
4 DESIGNEE; AND

5 (4) (3) THE FOLLOWING MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE DEPUTY
6 SECRETARY OF HEALTH CARE FINANCING, OR THE DEPUTY SECRETARY’S
7 DESIGNEE:

8 (I) THREE CONSUMERS;

9 (II) TWO REPRESENTATIVES OF CONSUMER ORGANIZATIONS;

10 (III) THREE DIRECT CARE WORKERS;

11 (IV) TWO REPRESENTATIVES OF WORKER ORGANIZATIONS; AND

12 (V) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A PROVIDER ASSOCIATION; AND

13 (VI) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC; AND

14 (3) ONE NONVOTING ADVISORY MEMBER FROM THE DIVISION OF
15 HEALTH CARE FINANCING AND MEDICAID WITH ADVANCED DATA LITERACY TO
16 ADDRESS ANY QUESTION OR ISSUE RELATED TO THE DATA EXAMINED BY THE
17 ADVISORY GROUP THREE REPRESENTATIVES OF PROVIDER ASSOCIATIONS, OF
18 WHOM:

19 1. TWO SHALL BE REPRESENTATIVES OF A RESIDENTIAL
20 SERVICE AGENCY; AND

21 2. ONE SHALL BE A REPRESENTATIVE OF AN EMPLOYER
22 TRADE ASSOCIATION.

23 (B) TO THE EXTENT PRACTICABLE, THE MEMBERS APPOINTED TO THE
24 ADVISORY GROUP SHALL REFLECT THE DIVERSITY OF LIVED EXPERIENCE WITH
25 DISABILITY, AS WELL AS THE GEOGRAPHIC, RACIAL, ETHNIC, CULTURAL, GENDER,
26 SEXUAL ORIENTATION, GENDER IDENTITY, GENDER EXPRESSION, AGE, AND
27 SOCIOECONOMIC DIVERSITY OF THE STATE.

28 (C) (1) THE DEPUTY SECRETARY OF HEALTH CARE FINANCING, OR THE
29 DEPUTY SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE, SHALL ESTABLISH AN APPLICATION PROCESS
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1142 5

1 THAT IS ACCESSIBLE TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC FOR THE RECRUITMENT OF
2 MEMBERS.

3 (2) THE APPLICATION AND CRITERIA FOR SELECTION SHALL BE
4 PUBLISHED ON THE DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE.

5 (D) (1) THE DEPUTY SECRETARY, OF HEALTH CARE FINANCING, OR THE
6 DEPUTY SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE, SHALL CHAIR THE ADVISORY GROUP.

7 (2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROVIDE STAFF AND SUPPORT FOR
8 THE ADVISORY GROUP, INCLUDING APPROPRIATE LOGISTICAL, AND
9 INFORMATIONAL, AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO ENSURE MEANINGFUL
10 PARTICIPATION OF DIRECT CARE WORKERS AND CONSUMERS IN THE ADVISORY
11 GROUP.

12 (E) (1) THE TERM OF AN APPOINTED MEMBER OF THE ADVISORY GROUP
13 IS 3 YEARS.

14 (2) THE SECRETARY SHALL ENSURE THAT MEMBERS SERVE
15 STAGGERED TERMS.

16 (3) AT THE END OF A TERM, AN APPOINTED MEMBER CONTINUES TO
17 SERVE UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND QUALIFIES.

18 (4) A MEMBER WHO IS APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN SERVES
19 ONLY FOR THE REST OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND
20 QUALIFIES.

21 (5) THE SECRETARY MAY REMOVE OR SUSPEND A MEMBER OF THE
22 ADVISORY GROUP FOR MISCONDUCT, INCOMPETENCE, OR NEGLECT OF DUTIES
23 AFTER AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE MEMBER TO BE HEARD.

24 (F) A MEMBER OF THE ADVISORY GROUP:

25 (1) MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
26 ADVISORY GROUP; BUT

27 (2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
28 STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, AS PROVIDED IN THE STATE BUDGET.

29 (G) (1) BEGINNING NOVEMBER 1, 2025, THE ADVISORY GROUP SHALL
30 MEET ON A QUARTERLY BASIS ANNUALLY.
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1142

1 (2) MEETING DATES, TIMES, AND LOCATIONS SHALL BE SELECTED TO
2 MAXIMIZE MEMBER ATTENDANCE.

3 15–1204.

4 (A) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ESTABLISH STANDARDIZED
5 PROCEDURES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE ADVISORY GROUP AND MAKE THE
6 PROCEDURES AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC ON A DEDICATED PAGE OF THE
7 DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE.

8 (2) THE DEDICATED PAGE ON THE DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE SHALL
9 ALSO INCLUDE:

10 (I) A LIST OF CURRENT ADVISORY GROUP MEMBERS;

11 (II) THE APPLICATION PROCESS AND SELECTION CRITERIA FOR
12 ADVISORY GROUP MEMBERS;

13 (III) THE LOCATION, DATE, AND TIME OF EACH ADVISORY
14 GROUP MEETING WITH AT LEAST 30 CALENDAR DAYS’ ADVANCE NOTICE;

15 (IV) OPTIONS FOR VIRTUAL PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS OF
16 THE ADVISORY GROUP;

17 (V) PROCEDURES TO ENSURE MEANINGFUL PARTICIPATION
18 FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES AND LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY;

19 (VI) A NOTATION OF AT WHICH MEETINGS THE GENERAL PUBLIC
20 WILL HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO TESTIFY OR MAKE COMMENTS; AND

21 (VII) IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT, THE
22 AGENDA AND MEETING MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS MEETING OF THE ADVISORY
23 GROUP, INCLUDING A LIST OF MEETING ATTENDEES.

24 (B) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROVIDE SUFFICIENT DATA AND RESOURCES
25 AT LEAST 30 DAYS IN ADVANCE OF A MEETING TO SUPPORT INFORMED
26 PARTICIPATION IN ADVISORY GROUP DISCUSSIONS, INCLUDING:

27 (1) DISTRIBUTING INFORMATION COLLECTED BY THE MARYLAND
28 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR UNDER § 15–156 OF THIS TITLE, INCLUDING DATA
29 COLLECTED BY RESIDENTIAL SERVICE AGENCIES RELATED TO DIRECT CARE
30 WORKFORCE:
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 1142 7

1 (I) STABILITY, INCLUDING TOTAL NUMBERS OF FULL–TIME
2 AND PART–TIME HOME CARE WORKERS, PERCENTAGE OF THE YEAR THAT THE
3 EMPLOYEES WERE EMPLOYED, AVERAGE LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT, TURNOVER
4 RATE, VACANCIES, AND UNSTAFFED HOURS MEASURED BY HOURS ALLOTTED IN
5 PLANS OF SERVICE FOR WHICH THE CONSUMER IS NOT RECEIVING CARE;

6 (II) COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS, INCLUDING THE HIGHEST,
7 LOWEST, MEDIAN, AND AVERAGE HOURLY WAGE PAID BY PROVIDER AGENCIES,
8 NUMBER OF HOURS AUTHORIZED FOR OVERTIME PAY, NUMBER OF HOURS PAID FOR
9 TRAVEL TIME BETWEEN CLIENTS, AND AVERAGE DAYS OF EARNED SICK AND SAFE
10 LEAVE PAID TO HOME CARE WORKERS EACH YEAR;

11 (III) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, INCLUDING HEALTH, DENTAL, AND
12 VISION BENEFITS, LIFE AND DISABILITY INSURANCE, PAID LEAVE, RETIREMENT,
13 AND TUITION REIMBURSEMENT;

14 (IV) PROVIDER COSTS RELATED TO THE WORKFORCE,
15 INCLUDING COSTS OF REQUIRED TRAININGS, TRAVEL COSTS FOR DIRECT CARE
16 WORKERS SUCH AS MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT OR PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
17 SUBSIDIES, AND COSTS OF PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT FOR DIRECT CARE
18 WORKERS; AND

19 (V) DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION INCLUDING AGE, GENDER,
20 RACE AND ETHNICITY, HIGHEST EDUCATIONAL LEVEL ATTAINED, CERTIFICATIONS
21 HELD, AND NUMBER OF YEARS OF DIRECT CARE WORK EXPERIENCE CURRENT AND
22 PROPOSED PAYMENT RATES;

23 (2) FEDERALLY REQUIRED INFORMATION WITH A DETAILED
24 EXPLANATION OF THE METHODOLOGY AND DATA LIMITATIONS FOR EACH REPORT,
25 INCLUDING:

26 (I) HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES PAYMENT
27 TRANSPARENCY REPORTS;

28 (II) PAYMENT ADEQUACY REPORTS AS REQUIRED UNDER 42
29 C.F.R. § 441.311(E); AND

30 (III) ACCESS–TO–CARE DATA, AS REQUIRED UNDER 42 C.F.R. §
31 441.311(D)(2);

32 (3) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS PUBLICLY AVAILABLE WAGE
33 DATA AND OTHER LABOR MARKET AND WORKFORCE DATA;
END OF PAGE 7

START OF PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 1142

1 (4) BENCHMARKING AND RATE STUDIES FOR HOME– AND
2 COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES CONDUCTED BY THE DEPARTMENT;

3 (5) RATE INFORMATION FROM NEIGHBORING OR SIMILARLY
4 SITUATED STATES; AND

5 (6) ACCESS–TO–CARE METRICS, INCLUDING:

6 (I) THE NUMBER OF CONSUMERS RECEIVING APPLICABLE
7 SERVICES; AND

8 (II) THE NUMBER OF UTILIZATION HOURS FOR APPLICABLE
9 SERVICE CATEGORIES;

10 (III) A DESCRIPTION OF HOW THE STATE MAINTAINS THE
11 MEDICAID WAIVER WAITING LIST FOR HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES;

12 (IV) THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS ON THE WAITING LIST;

13 (V) THE AVERAGE LENGTH OF TIME NEW WAIVER ENROLLEES
14 WAITED TO ENROLL; AND

15 (VI) THE NUMBER OF TIMES INDIVIDUALS MUST RE–APPLY TO
16 RECEIVE SERVICES.

17 (C) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL CONSULT THE ADVISORY GROUP BEFORE
18 MAKING CHANGES TO PAYMENT RATES FOR APPLICABLE SERVICE CATEGORIES AND
19 SHALL AFFORD DEFERENCE TO THE ADVISORY GROUP’S RECOMMENDATIONS.

20 (D) (1) TO SUPPORT THE ADVISORY GROUP AND ENGAGE THE BROADER
21 DIRECT CARE WORKFORCE AND CONSUMERS ACROSS THE STATE, THE
22 DEPARTMENT SHALL DEVELOP A PUBLIC EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION PLAN
23 TO INFORM DIRECT CARE WORKERS AND DIRECT CARE CONSUMERS OF:

24 (I) THE ADVISORY GROUP, ITS PURPOSE, MEETINGS, AND
25 OPPORTUNITIES FOR INPUT; AND

26 (II) A SUMMARY OF ITS ANNUAL REPORT AND ANY
27 RECOMMENDATIONS.

28 (2) THE PUBLIC EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION PLAN MUST:

29 (I) ENSURE BROAD LANGUAGE ACCESS AND BE CULTURALLY
30 COMPETENT;
END OF PAGE 8

START OF PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 1142 9

1 (II) USE TARGETED METHODS THAT WILL EFFECTIVELY
2 ENGAGE DIRECT CARE WORKERS AND DIRECT CARE CONSUMERS, INCLUDING
3 ADVERTISING AND OTHER MARKETING TOOLS;

4 (III) INCLUDE AN OPTION FOR DIRECT CARE WORKERS AND
5 DIRECT CARE CONSUMERS TO PROVIDE INFORMATION, INCLUDING A MAILING
6 ADDRESS, E–MAIL ADDRESS, OR TELEPHONE NUMBER, FOR PURPOSES OF
7 RECEIVING ONGOING COMMUNICATION FROM THE DEPARTMENT CONCERNING THE
8 ADVISORY GROUP AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR ENGAGEMENT WITH THE ADVISORY
9 GROUP; AND

10 (IV) REQUIRE EACH RESIDENTIAL SERVICE AGENCY TO
11 PROVIDE INFORMATION REGARDING THE ADVISORY GROUP DIRECTLY TO ITS
12 EMPLOYEES.

13 15–1205.

14 (A) THE ADVISORY GROUP SHALL:

15 (1) EVALUATE THE SUFFICIENCY OF MEDICAID PAYMENT RATES FOR
16 APPLICABLE SERVICE CATEGORIES; AND

17 (2) EXAMINE WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE DIRECT CARE
18 WORKFORCE, INCLUDING CURRENT WAGE RATES AND OFFERED BENEFITS,
19 INITIATIVES FOR RETENTION AND RECRUITMENT OF WORKERS, TRAINING
20 REQUIREMENTS, AND ACCESS TO WORKER ORGANIZATIONS;

21 (3) EVALUATE CHALLENGES TO ACCESSING CARE FOR APPLICABLE
22 MEDICAID HOME– AND COMMUNITY–BASED SERVICES; AND

23 (4) DEVELOP A COMMUNICATION PLAN FOR THE DEPARTMENT’S
24 ENGAGEMENT WITH DIRECT CARE WORKERS AND CONSUMERS.

25 (B) (1) ON OR BEFORE SEPTEMBER 1 EACH YEAR, BEGINNING IN 2026,
26 THE ADVISORY GROUP SHALL REPORT ITS ACTIVITIES AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO
27 THE GOVERNOR AND, IN ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT
28 ARTICLE, THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY.

29 (2) THE REPORT OF THE ADVISORY GROUP SHALL ADDRESS:

30 (I) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INCREASING MEDICAID
31 PAYMENT RATES FOR APPLICABLE SERVICE CATEGORIES;
END OF PAGE 9

START OF PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 1142

1 (II) EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS FOR DIRECT CARE WORKERS,
2 INCLUDING A WAGE FLOOR AND EFFORTS TO COMBAT MISCLASSIFICATION OF
3 EMPLOYEES;

4 (III) REMOVING BARRIERS TO ACCESS TO CARE AND
5 RECOMMENDATIONS ON HOW TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY AND CONTINUOUS
6 CARE;

7 (IV) MEANS THE STATE CAN USE TO COMMUNICATE
8 INFORMATION TO DIRECT CARE WORKERS AND CONSUMERS ABOUT THE PURVIEW
9 OF THE ADVISORY GROUP, ITS PURPOSE, ITS MEETINGS AND HEARINGS, AND
10 OPPORTUNITIES TO PROVIDE INPUT; AND

11 (V) THE ADVISORY GROUP’S REVIEW OF ANY RACIAL, GENDER,
12 OR ECONOMIC DISPARITIES IMPACTING DIRECT CARE WORKERS OR CONSUMERS
13 AND EXAMPLES OF RATES AND DELIVERY SYSTEMS FOR APPLICABLE SERVICES IN
14 OTHER STATES WITH FAVORABLE CONDITIONS FOR DIRECT CARE WORKERS AND
15 CONSUMERS.

16 (3) ANY RECOMMENDATIONS ADOPTED BY THE ADVISORY GROUP
17 MUST RECEIVE AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF AT LEAST SEVEN MEMBERS A MAJORITY
18 VOTE.

19 (4) BEFORE THE SUBMISSION OF THE REPORT UNDER PARAGRAPH
20 (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION, THE DEPARTMENT SHALL REVIEW THE REPORT ON
21 RECEIPT FROM THE ADVISORY GROUP AND WITHIN 60 DAYS AFTER RECEIVING THE
22 REPORT RESPOND TO ANY RECOMMENDATION, INCLUDING ANY JUSTIFICATION FOR
23 DECLINING TO IMPLEMENT A RECOMMENDATION OF THE ADVISORY GROUP.

24 (5) FOLLOWING THE DEPARTMENT’S REVIEW OF THE ANNUAL
25 REPORT, THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

26 (I) PROVIDE THE ADVISORY GROUP WITH AN OPPORTUNITY
27 TO MAKE CHANGES TO THE REPORT; AND

28 (II) (C) POST THE DEPARTMENT SHALL POST THE REPORT
29 TO THE DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE WITHIN 30 DAYS AFTER THE REPORT HAS BEEN
30 FINALIZED.

31 (C) (D) THE ADVISORY GROUP MAY HOLD OPPORTUNITIES TO SOLICIT
32 AND COLLECT TESTIMONY FROM THE PUBLIC AND INVITE INPUT FROM EMPLOYER
33 ORGANIZATIONS, WORKER ORGANIZATIONS, CONSUMER ADVOCACY GROUPS, AND
34 OTHER STAKEHOLDERS IN THE DIRECT CARE INDUSTRY.
END OF PAGE 10

START OF PAGE 11
HOUSE BILL 1142 11

1 (D) (E) (1) AN EMPLOYER OR STATE AGENCY MAY NOT TAKE
2 RETALIATORY ACTION AGAINST A DIRECT CARE WORKER OR CONSUMER FOR
3 PARTICIPATION IN THE ADVISORY GROUP.

4 (2) THIS SECTION DOES NOT LIMIT THE RIGHTS OF DIRECT CARE
5 WORKERS UNDER STATE OR FEDERAL EMPLOYMENT OR LABOR LAW, OR
6 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS.

7 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Deputy Secretary of
8 Health Care Financing, or the Deputy Secretary’s designee, shall appoint the initial
9 members of the Maryland Interested Parties Advisory Group on or before October 1, 2025.

10 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
11 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 11