PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1174

A2 (5lr1087)
ENROLLED BILL
— Economic Matters/Finance —
Introduced by Montgomery County Delegation

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Montgomery County – Alcoholic Beverages – Class BD–BWL Licenses – Multiple
3 Licenses

4 MC 18–25

5 FOR the purpose of increasing the number of Class BD–BWL alcoholic beverages licenses
6 in Montgomery County that the same person may hold; specifying that the
7 establishment for which a second Class BD–BWL license is issued shall have average
8 daily receipts from the sale of food that exceed the average daily receipts from the sale
9 of alcoholic beverages; ~~specifying~~ ~~that~~ ~~a~~ ~~second~~ ~~Class~~ ~~BD–BWL~~ ~~license~~ ~~issued~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~
10 ~~same~~ ~~person~~ ~~authorizes~~ ~~the~~ ~~holder~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~license~~ ~~to~~ ~~sell~~ ~~only~~ ~~certain~~ ~~beverages~~ ~~for~~
11 ~~off–premises~~ ~~consumption;~~ and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in
12 Montgomery County.

13 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1174*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1174

1 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
2 Section 25–102
3 Annotated Code of Maryland
4 (2024 Replacement Volume)

5 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
6 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
7 Section 25–903, 25–1503, and 25–1614
8 Annotated Code of Maryland
9 (2024 Replacement Volume)

10 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
11 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

12 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

13 25–102.

14 This title applies only in Montgomery County.

15 25–903.

16 (a) There is a Class BD–BWL license.

17 (b) The license authorizes the license holder to sell:

18 (1) beer and wine for on– or off–premises consumption; and

19 (2) liquor for on–premises consumption.

20 (c) As a prerequisite for the initial issuance of the license, the owner of the
21 establishment shall attest in a sworn statement that food will be available for sale for
22 on–premises consumption during the hours that alcoholic beverages are permitted to be
23 served.

24 (d) As a prerequisite for each renewal of the license, the owner of the
25 establishment shall attest in a sworn statement that food will be available for sale for
26 on–premises consumption during the hours that alcoholic beverages are permitted to be
27 served.

28 (e) The Board by regulation shall specify the type of food that is required to be
29 available for sale for on–premises consumption during the hours that alcoholic beverages
30 are permitted to be served.

~~(1)~~31 (f) A holder of a Class BD–BWL license:

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1174 3

~~[(1)]~~ ~~(I)~~1 may also hold a Class 7 micro–brewery license issued for a
2 location in the county; but

~~[(2)]~~ ~~(II)~~ [one] [license]3 may not hold more than Class BD–BWLTWO
4 LICENSES.

~~(2)~~ ~~NOTWITHSTANDING~~ ~~(B)~~ ~~SECTION,~~5 ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~IF~~ ~~A~~
~~CLASS~~ ~~BD–BWL~~ ~~LICENSE,~~ ~~CLASS~~6 ~~PERSON~~ ~~HOLDS~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECOND~~
~~BD–BWL~~7 ~~LICENSE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~ISSUED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~AUTHORIZES~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~TO~~
~~SELL,~~ ~~LICENSE:~~8 ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PREMISES~~ ~~DESCRIBED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECOND~~

~~(I)~~ ~~BEER,~~ ~~WINE,~~ ~~ON–PREMISES~~9 ~~AND~~ ~~LIQUOR~~ ~~FOR~~
~~CONSUMPTION;~~10 ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~PRIVATE–LABEL~~11 ~~ONLY~~ ~~PRODUCTS~~ ~~MANUFACTURED~~
~~OFF–PREMISES~~ ~~CONSUMPTION.~~12 ~~EXCLUSIVELY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~FOR~~

IF CLASS BD–BWL13 (g) A PERSON HOLDS TWO LICENSES UNDER
(F)(2) SECTION,14 SUBSECTION OF THIS THE ESTABLISHMENT FOR WHICH THE
CLASS BD–BWL15 SECOND LICENSE IS ISSUED SHALL HAVE AVERAGE DAILY RECEIPTS
16 FROM THE SALE OF FOOD THAT EXCEED THE AVERAGE DAILY RECEIPTS FROM THE
BEVERAGES.17 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC

(H)18 The annual license fee is $3,500.

19 25–1503.

20 Multiple licenses may be issued for the same premises or to an individual for the use
21 of that individual, a partnership, a corporation, an unincorporated association, or a limited
22 liability company if:

(I)23 (1) the licenses are Class H beer and wine licenses; and

[(2)] (II)24 each premises is a restaurant in a bowling establishment that
pinsetters;25 has at least 30 lanes with automatic OR

(2) CLASS BD–BWL26 LICENSES.THE LICENSES ARE

27 25–1614.

28 (a) Except as provided in § 25–1615 of this subtitle, the Board may not authorize
29 the same license holder to hold more than 10 licenses.

30 (b) The 10 licenses that may be held by the same license holder:

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1174

1 (1) may include:

2 (i) one or more Class H–BW licenses; and

3 (ii) one or more Class B–K licenses; and

[one] [license]4 (2) may not include more than Class BD–BWLTWO
5 LICENSES.

6 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
7 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.