START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1204

F1 5lr2731

By: Delegates Patterson, Hill, Kaufman, McComas, Schindler, ~~and~~ ~~Turner~~ Turner,
Atterbeary, Ebersole, Feldmark, Griffith, Mireku–North, Palakovich Carr,
Roberts, Wells, Wims, and Wu
Introduced and read first time: February 6, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Public and Nonpublic Schools – Student Elopement – Notice and Reporting
3 Requirements
4 (Ace’s Law)

5 FOR the purpose of requiring certain public and nonpublic schools to notify a parent or
6 guardian if a student attempts or accomplishes an elopement from the school campus
7 ~~except~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~ ~~circumstances;~~ ~~establishing~~ ~~certain~~ ~~reporting~~ ~~requirements~~ ~~for~~
8 ~~certain~~ ~~public~~ ~~and~~ ~~nonpublic~~ ~~schools~~ ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Education~~
9 ~~regarding~~ ~~incidents~~ ~~of~~ ~~student~~ ~~elopement~~ ~~from~~ ~~school;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~to~~
10 ~~develop~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~accountability~~ ~~system;~~ requiring certain schools and individualized
11 education program teams to review and address with relevant stakeholders certain
12 behavior in updating a student’s individualized education program or behavior
13 intervention plan; and generally relating to student elopement and public and
14 nonpublic schools.

15 BY adding to
16 Article – Education
17 Section 7–11A–01 through ~~7–11A–07~~ 7–11A–03 to be under the new subtitle
18 “Subtitle 11A. Student Elopement From School”
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1204*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1204

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Education

4 SUBTITLE 11A. STUDENT ELOPEMENT FROM SCHOOL.

5 7–11A–01.

6 (A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
7 INDICATED.

8 (B) “BEHAVIOR INTERVENTION PLAN” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN §
9 7–1101 OF THIS TITLE.

10 (C) “ELOPEMENT” MEANS THE ACT OF A STUDENT LEAVING THE SCHOOL
11 CAMPUS WITHOUT THE PERMISSION OF A SCHOOL STAFF MEMBER WHO HAS
12 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE STUDENT.

13 (D) “IEP” MEANS AN INDIVIDUALIZED EDUCATION PROGRAM AS DEFINED
14 UNDER THE FEDERAL INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT.

15 (E) “NONPUBLIC SCHOOL” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 7–1101 OF THIS
16 TITLE.

17 (F) “SCHOOL” MEANS:

18 (1) A PUBLIC ELEMENTARY, MIDDLE, OR HIGH SCHOOL;

19 (2) THE MARYLAND SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND;

20 (3) THE MARYLAND SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF; AND

21 (4) A NONPUBLIC SCHOOL.

22 (G) “SCHOOL CAMPUS” MEANS THE BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS OF A
23 SCHOOL, INCLUDING A PLAYGROUND.

24 (H) (1) “WANDERING” MEANS THE ACT OF A STUDENT LEAVING A
25 CLASSROOM OR AREA ON THE SCHOOL CAMPUS, BUT NOT LEAVING THE SCHOOL
26 CAMPUS, WITHOUT THE PERMISSION OF A SCHOOL STAFF MEMBER WHO HAS
27 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE STUDENT.

28 (2) “WANDERING” DOES NOT INCLUDE A STUDENT LEAVING A
29 CLASSROOM OR AREA ON THE SCHOOL CAMPUS UNDER A FLASH PASS OR ANOTHER
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1204 3

1 STANDING ARRANGEMENT THAT HAS BEEN APPROVED BY A SCHOOL
2 ADMINISTRATOR.

3 7–11A–02.

4 (A) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION (B) OF THIS SECTION, EACH EACH
5 TIME A STUDENT ATTEMPTS OR ACCOMPLISHES AN ELOPEMENT, THE SCHOOL
6 SHALL NOTIFY THE STUDENT’S PARENT OR GUARDIAN WITHIN 24 HOURS OF THE
7 ELOPEMENT INCIDENT ON THE SAME DAY AS THE ELOPEMENT INCIDENT.

8 (B) (1) A SCHOOL IS NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE THE NOTICE UNDER
9 SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION TO THE PARENT OR GUARDIAN OF A STUDENT
10 WHO HAS AN IEP OR A BEHAVIOR INTERVENTION PLAN THAT INCLUDES MEASURES
11 FOR RESPONDING TO AN INCIDENT OF WANDERING OR ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR BY
12 THE STUDENT.

13 (2) AT LEAST ONE TIME EACH YEAR, A SCHOOL OR A STUDENT’S IEP
14 TEAM SHALL REVIEW AND ADDRESS WITH RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS A STUDENT’S
15 WANDERING OR ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR IN UPDATING THE STUDENT’S IEP OR
16 BEHAVIOR INTERVENTION PLAN.

17 7–11A–03.

18 (A) ON OR BEFORE AUGUST 1, 2026, AND EACH AUGUST 1 THEREAFTER,
19 EACH PUBLIC SCHOOL SHALL SUBMIT TO THE COUNTY BOARD A REPORT FOR THE
20 PRIOR SCHOOL YEAR ON:

21 (1) THE NUMBER OF ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS, DISAGGREGATED BY
22 JURISDICTION, DISABILITY, RACE, GENDER, AGE, AND TYPE OF PLACEMENT;

23 (2) THE NUMBER OF ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS FOR EACH STUDENT
24 WHO HAD AT LEAST ONE ELOPEMENT INCIDENT, DISAGGREGATED BY
25 JURISDICTION, DISABILITY, RACE, GENDER, AGE, AND TYPE OF PLACEMENT; AND

26 (3) THE STEPS TAKEN BY THE SCHOOL TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF
27 ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS AND TO ENCOURAGE POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL
28 INTERVENTIONS, INCLUDING A DESCRIPTION OF:

29 (I) THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROVIDED TO
30 DESIGNATED SCHOOL PERSONNEL ON IDENTIFICATION OF WANDERING OR
31 ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR IN STUDENTS, INCLUDING ANTECEDENTS TO WANDERING
32 OR ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR, AND POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS USED TO
33 ADDRESS WANDERING AND ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR; AND
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1204

1 (II) THE POLICY CHANGES MADE OR NEW PROFESSIONAL
2 DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES OFFERED THAT WERE DESIGNED TO PROMOTE
3 POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS AND REDUCE INCIDENTS OF WANDERING
4 AND ELOPEMENT BEHAVIORS IN THE UPCOMING SCHOOL YEAR.

5 (B) (1) A COUNTY BOARD SHALL VERIFY THE ACCURACY OF A REPORT
6 FROM A SCHOOL THAT REPORTS ZERO ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS UNDER SUBSECTION
7 (A) OF THIS SECTION.

8 (2) IF A COUNTY BOARD IS UNABLE TO VERIFY THE ACCURACY OF A
9 REPORT SUBMITTED BY A SCHOOL UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION, THE
10 COUNTY BOARD SHALL MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE SCHOOL FOR
11 IMPROVEMENTS IN DATA COLLECTION AND POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS
12 AT THE SCHOOL.

13 (C) ON OR BEFORE OCTOBER 1, 2026, AND EACH OCTOBER 1 THEREAFTER,
14 EACH COUNTY BOARD SHALL SUBMIT TO THE DEPARTMENT A REPORT THAT
15 COMPILES THE INFORMATION REPORTED UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION.

16 7–11A–04.

17 (A) ON OR BEFORE OCTOBER 1, 2026, AND EACH OCTOBER 1 THEREAFTER,
18 THE MARYLAND SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND, THE MARYLAND SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF,
19 AND EACH NONPUBLIC SCHOOL SHALL SUBMIT TO THE DEPARTMENT A REPORT FOR
20 THE PRIOR SCHOOL YEAR ON:

21 (1) THE NUMBER OF ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS, DISAGGREGATED BY
22 JURISDICTION, DISABILITY, RACE, GENDER, AGE, AND TYPE OF PLACEMENT;

23 (2) THE NUMBER OF ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS FOR EACH STUDENT
24 WHO HAD AT LEAST ONE ELOPEMENT INCIDENT, DISAGGREGATED BY
25 JURISDICTION, DISABILITY, RACE, GENDER, AGE, AND TYPE OF PLACEMENT; AND

26 (3) THE STEPS TAKEN BY THE SCHOOL TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF
27 ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS AND TO ENCOURAGE POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL
28 INTERVENTIONS, INCLUDING A DESCRIPTION OF:

29 (I) THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROVIDED TO
30 DESIGNATED SCHOOL PERSONNEL ON IDENTIFICATION OF WANDERING OR
31 ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR IN STUDENTS, INCLUDING ANTECEDENTS TO WANDERING
32 OR ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR, AND POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS USED TO
33 ADDRESS WANDERING AND ELOPEMENT BEHAVIOR; AND
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1204 5

1 (II) THE POLICY CHANGES MADE OR NEW PROFESSIONAL
2 DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES OFFERED THAT WERE DESIGNED TO PROMOTE
3 POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS AND REDUCE INCIDENTS OF WANDERING
4 AND ELOPEMENT BEHAVIORS IN THE UPCOMING SCHOOL YEAR.

5 (B) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL VERIFY THE ACCURACY OF A REPORT
6 FROM A SCHOOL THAT REPORTS ZERO ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS UNDER SUBSECTION
7 (A) OF THIS SECTION.

8 (2) IF THE DEPARTMENT IS UNABLE TO VERIFY THE ACCURACY OF A
9 REPORT SUBMITTED BY A SCHOOL UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION, THE
10 DEPARTMENT SHALL MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE SCHOOL FOR
11 IMPROVEMENTS IN DATA COLLECTION AND POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS
12 AT THE SCHOOL.

13 7–11A–05.

14 (A) WHEN DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF ELOPEMENT INCIDENTS FOR A
15 REPORT REQUIRED UNDER §§ 7–11A–03 AND 7–11A–04 OF THIS SUBTITLE:

16 (1) AN ELOPEMENT INCIDENT IS A SINGLE ATTEMPTED OR
17 ACCOMPLISHED ELOPEMENT;

18 (2) AN ELOPEMENT INCIDENT SHALL BE CONSIDERED ENDED IF AT
19 ANY TIME DURING THE INCIDENT THE STUDENT IS NO LONGER ATTEMPTING TO
20 LEAVE THE SCHOOL CAMPUS; AND

21 (3) IF A STUDENT RETURNS TO THE SCHOOL CAMPUS AFTER AN
22 ACCOMPLISHED ELOPEMENT, ANY SUBSEQUENT ATTEMPTED OR ACCOMPLISHED
23 ELOPEMENT BY THE STUDENT SHALL BE COUNTED AS A SEPARATE ELOPEMENT
24 INCIDENT.

25 (B) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

26 (1) PROVIDE GUIDANCE TO SCHOOLS REGARDING DATA COLLECTION
27 AND COMPLIANCE WITH REPORTING REQUIREMENTS UNDER THIS SUBTITLE;

28 (2) DEVELOP AN ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE
29 BY SCHOOLS WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SUBTITLE AND ANY REGULATIONS
30 ADOPTED BY THE DEPARTMENT TO IMPLEMENT THIS SUBTITLE; AND

31 (3) ANALYZE THE DATA AND INFORMATION COLLECTED UNDER THIS
32 SUBTITLE TO DETERMINE TRENDS AND PATTERNS.
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1204

1 (C) (1) ON OR BEFORE DECEMBER 1, 2026, AND EACH DECEMBER 1
2 THEREAFTER, THE DEPARTMENT SHALL SUBMIT TO THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY, IN
3 ACCORDANCE WITH § 2–1257 OF THE STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, A REPORT ON
4 STUDENT ELOPEMENT USING THE INFORMATION REPORTED TO THE DEPARTMENT
5 UNDER §§ 7–11A–03 AND 7–11A–04 OF THIS SUBTITLE FOR THE PRIOR SCHOOL
6 YEAR.

7 (2) IN THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS
8 SUBSECTION, THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROVIDE THE DATA:

9 (I) BY SCHOOL, SUBJECT TO STATE AND FEDERAL PRIVACY
10 LAWS; AND

11 (II) IN A MANNER THAT ACCOUNTS FOR VARIATION IN
12 ENROLLMENT BETWEEN SCHOOLS.

13 (D) WITHIN 30 DAYS AFTER SUBMITTING THE REPORT UNDER SUBSECTION
14 (C) OF THIS SECTION, THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PUBLISH THE REPORT ON ITS
15 WEBSITE.

16 7–11A–06.

17 A SCHOOL OR A COUNTY BOARD SHALL SUBMIT A SYSTEMIC,
18 EVIDENCE–BASED CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN TO THE DEPARTMENT IF THE
19 SCHOOL:

20 (1) FAILS TO COMPLY WITH ANY PROVISION OF THIS SUBTITLE; OR

21 (2) REPORTS TO THE DEPARTMENT THAT A STUDENT HAS
22 ATTEMPTED OR ACCOMPLISHED ELOPEMENT 10 TIMES OR MORE IN A SCHOOL YEAR
23 UNDER § 7–11A–03 OR § 7–11A–04 OF THIS SUBTITLE.

24 7–11A–07.

25 (A) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE
26 PROVISIONS OF THIS SUBTITLE.

27 (B) A SCHOOL SHALL DEVELOP POLICIES AND PROCEDURES TO IMPLEMENT
28 THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SUBTITLE.

29 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
30 1, 2025.
END OF PAGE 6