START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1244

J1 (5lr2994)
ENROLLED BILL
— Health and Government Operations/Finance —
Introduced by Delegates Guyton ~~and~~ ~~Bagnall,~~ Bagnall, Pena–Melnyk, Cullison,
Alston, Bhandari, Chisholm, Guzzone, Hill, Hutchinson, S. Johnson, Kaiser,
Kerr, Kipke, Lopez, Martinez, M. Morgan, Reilly, Rosenberg, Szeliga,
Taveras, Woods, Woorman, and Ross

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Maryland Developmental Disabilities Administration Waiver Advisory Council –
3 Establishment

4 FOR the purpose of establishing the Maryland Developmental Disabilities Administration
5 Waiver Advisory Council to advise and provide recommendations to the
6 Developmental Disabilities Administration on system design, service delivery, and
7 quality enhancement strategies for the Medicaid waiver programs operated by the
8 Administration; and generally relating to the Maryland Developmental Disabilities
9 Administration Waiver Advisory Council.

10 BY adding to
11 Article – Health – General

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1244*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1244

1 Section 7–12B–01 through 7–12B–05 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 12B.
2 Maryland Developmental Disabilities Administration Waiver Advisory
3 Council”
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
7 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

8 Article – Health – General

9 SUBTITLE 12B. MARYLAND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES ADMINISTRATION
10 WAIVER ADVISORY COUNCIL.

11 7–12B–01.

12 IN THIS SUBTITLE, “COUNCIL” MEANS THE MARYLAND DEVELOPMENTAL
13 DISABILITIES ADMINISTRATION WAIVER ADVISORY COUNCIL.

14 7–12B–02.

15 (A) THERE IS A MARYLAND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES
16 ADMINISTRATION WAIVER ADVISORY COUNCIL IN THE ADMINISTRATION.

17 (B) THE PURPOSE OF THE COUNCIL IS TO:

18 (1) ADVISE AND PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE
19 ADMINISTRATION ON SYSTEM DESIGN, SERVICE DELIVERY, AND QUALITY
20 ENHANCEMENT STRATEGIES FOR THE MEDICAID WAIVER PROGRAMS OPERATED BY
21 THE ADMINISTRATION; AND

22 (2) FOSTER MEANINGFUL ENGAGEMENT AND ESTABLISH A
23 FEEDBACK LOOP WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS WHILE PRIORITIZING INPUT FROM
24 INDIVIDUALS WITH LIVED EXPERIENCE WITH A MEDICAID WAIVER PROGRAM.

25 (C) THE COUNCIL SHALL ADHERE TO PERSON–CENTERED THINKING,
26 DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION PRINCIPLES, AND EVIDENCE–BASED AND
27 DATA–DRIVEN DISCUSSION AND PROBLEM SOLVING.

28 7–12B–03.

29 (A) (1) THE COUNCIL CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING VOTING MEMBERS,
30 APPOINTED BY THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH:
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1244 3

1 (I) 18 20 21 INDIVIDUALS WITH LIVED EXPERIENCE
2 PARTICIPATING IN AN ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM THAT SHALL INCLUDE:

3 1. REPRESENTATIVES FROM ADVOCACY GROUPS FOR
4 INDIVIDUALS WITH INTELLECTUAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES; AND

5 2. EQUAL REPRESENTATION FROM INDIVIDUALS WHO
6 HAVE EXPERIENCED SELF–DIRECTED DELIVERY MODELS AND INDIVIDUALS WHO
7 HAVE EXPERIENCED TRADITIONAL DELIVERY MODELS;

8 (II) TWO LICENSED PROVIDERS OF RESIDENTIAL AND DAY
9 SERVICES;

10 (III) TWO CERTIFIED PROVIDERS OF SERVICES INCLUDING
11 EMPLOYMENT, PERSONAL SUPPORT, TECHNOLOGY, AND TRANSPORTATION;

12 (IV) ONE TWO COORDINATION OF COMMUNITY SERVICES
13 PROVIDER PROVIDERS;

14 (V) ONE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COUNSELING SERVICES
15 PROVIDER;

16 (VI) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF AN ETHNIC ADVOCACY GROUP IN
17 THE STATE;

18 (VII) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE MARYLAND CENTER FOR
19 DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES;

20 (VIII) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE MARYLAND
21 DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES COUNCIL;

22 (IX) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SELF–DIRECTED
23 ADVOCACY NETWORK OF MARYLAND;

24 (X) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PARENTS’ PLACE OF
25 MARYLAND;

26 (XI) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE MARYLAND ASSOCIATION
27 OF COMMUNITY SERVICES;

28 (XII) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ARC MARYLAND;

29 (XIII) ONE INDIVIDUAL WHO IS A SUPPORT BROKER;
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1244

1 (XIV) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF SERVICE COORDINATION, INC.;

2 (XI) (XIII) (XV) THREE FAMILY MEMBERS WITH EXPERIENCE
3 WITH SELF–DIRECTED SERVICES; AND

4 (XII) (XIV) (XVI) THREE FAMILY MEMBERS WITH EXPERIENCE
5 WITH TRADITIONAL SERVICES.

6 (2) THE COUNCIL CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING NONVOTING
7 MEMBERS:

8 (I) ONE MEMBER OF THE SENATE OF MARYLAND, APPOINTED
9 BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE;

10 (II) ONE MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF DELEGATES, APPOINTED
11 BY THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE;

12 (III) THE DIRECTOR OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS AND INTEGRITY
13 IN THE ADMINISTRATION;

14 (IV) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
15 DISABILITIES, DESIGNATED BY THE SECRETARY OF DISABILITIES;

16 (V) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING
17 AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, DESIGNATED BY THE SECRETARY OF HOUSING
18 AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT;

19 (VI) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN
20 SERVICES, DESIGNATED BY THE SECRETARY OF HUMAN SERVICES;

21 (VII) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DIVISION OF
22 REHABILITATION SERVICES IN THE STATE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION,
23 DESIGNATED BY THE STATE SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS;

24 (VIII) THE FOLLOWING MEMBERS, DESIGNATED BY THE
25 SECRETARY OF HEALTH:

26 1. ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OFFICE OF LONG
27 TERM SERVICES AND SUPPORTS;

28 2. ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE BEHAVIORAL
29 HEALTH ADMINISTRATION;
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1244 5

1 3. ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OFFICE OF HEALTH
2 CARE QUALITY;

3 4. ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ELIGIBILITY
4 DETERMINATION DIVISION OF THE OFFICE OF ELIGIBILITY SERVICES; AND

5 5. ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE MARYLAND LONG
6 TERM SERVICES AND SUPPORT SYSTEM PROGRAM MANAGEMENT OFFICE; AND

7 (IX) THE FOLLOWING MEMBERS, APPOINTED BY THE
8 SECRETARY OF HEALTH:

9 1. ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE NATIONAL
10 ASSOCIATION OF STATE DIRECTORS OF DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES SERVICES;
11 AND

12 2. ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF APPLIED
13 SELF–DIRECTION.

14 (3) THE LICENSED OR CERTIFIED PROVIDERS ON THE COUNCIL
15 SHALL INCLUDE REPRESENTATIVES FROM EACH REGION AND FROM THE
16 MARYLAND ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY SERVICES AND THE ARC OF MARYLAND.

17 (4) (3) FAMILY MEMBERS APPOINTED TO THE COUNCIL SHALL
18 INCLUDE AT LEAST ONE FAMILY MEMBER FROM EACH REGION.

19 (5) (4) THE ADMINISTRATION SHALL ESTABLISH AN APPLICATION
20 PROCESS AND REVIEW PROCESS FOR MEMBERS WHO WISH TO SERVE ON THE
21 COUNCIL.

22 (6) (5) TO THE EXTENT PRACTICABLE, THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE
23 COUNCIL SHALL REFLECT THE GENDER, RACIAL, ETHNIC, AND GEOGRAPHICAL
24 DIVERSITY OF THE STATE.

25 (B) (1) THE TERM OF A MEMBER IS 3 YEARS.

26 (2) THE TERMS OF MEMBERS ARE STAGGERED AS REQUIRED BY THE
27 TERMS PROVIDED FOR THE MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL ON OCTOBER 1, 2025.

28 (3) AT THE END OF A TERM, A MEMBER CONTINUES TO SERVE UNTIL
29 A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND QUALIFIES.
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1244

1 (4) A MEMBER WHO IS APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN SERVES
2 ONLY FOR THE REST OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND
3 QUALIFIES.

4 (5) A MEMBER MAY NOT SERVE CONSECUTIVE TERMS BUT MAY SERVE
5 FOR MULTIPLE NONCONSECUTIVE TERMS.

6 (C) (1) THE DIRECTOR OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS SHALL SERVE AS A
7 NONVOTING COCHAIR.

8 (2) THE COUNCIL SHALL VOTE FOR THE ADDITIONAL COCHAIR.

9 (D) (1) THE ADMINISTRATION SHALL PROVIDE STAFF FOR THE COUNCIL.

10 (2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL INCLUDE A DEDICATED COUNCIL
11 WEBPAGE ON THE DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE THAT INCLUDES MEETING DATES AND
12 TIMES, AGENDAS AND OTHER MEETING DOCUMENTS, AND RECORDED PAST
13 MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.

14 (E) A MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL:

15 (1) MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
16 COUNCIL; BUT

17 (2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
18 STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, AS PROVIDED IN THE STATE BUDGET.

19 (F) THE COUNCIL MAY PROVIDE TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS, AS NECESSARY,
20 FOR MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL WITH DISABILITIES.

21 7–12B–04.

22 (A) (1) THE COUNCIL SHALL MEET ONCE EVERY 2 MONTHS IN A
23 LOCATION THAT IS MADE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE AT LEAST 2 WEEKS BEFORE THE
24 MEETING.

25 (2) THE COUNCIL MAY HOLD ADDITIONAL MEETINGS IF DETERMINED
26 NECESSARY BY THE COCHAIRS.

27 (3) MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL SHALL:

28 (I) BE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC AND RECORDED BY VIDEO;
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 1244 7

1 (II) FOLLOW AGENDAS THAT ARE DISTRIBUTED AT LEAST 1
2 WEEK BEFORE THE MEETING TO COUNCIL MEMBERS BY E–MAIL;

3 (III) CONCLUDE WITH A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING OF
4 EXPECTATIONS AND ASSIGNMENTS FOR FUTURE STEPS;

5 (IV) PROVIDE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH
6 DISABILITIES; AND

7 (V) INCLUDE TIME FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AFTER MEETING
8 AGENDA ITEMS HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED.

9 (4) A MEETING OF THE COUNCIL MAY BE HELD VIRTUALLY IF
10 DETERMINED NECESSARY BY THE COCHAIRS.

11 (5) THE COUNCIL SHALL PROVIDE NOTICE OF ITS MEETINGS BY
12 E–MAIL TO MEMBERS AT LEAST 1 WEEK BEFORE THE MEETING AND SHALL INCLUDE
13 AN AGENDA AND ANY DOCUMENTS TO BE REVIEWED FOR THE MEETING.

14 (6) THE COUNCIL SHALL DISTRIBUTE MEETING MINUTES TO
15 MEMBERS WITHIN 2 WEEKS AFTER EACH COUNCIL MEETING.

16 (B) THE COUNCIL MAY FORM WORKGROUPS THAT MAY MEET AS DIRECTED
17 BY THE COCHAIRS.

18 (C) THE COUNCIL SHALL ESTABLISH A CODE OF CONDUCT FOR COUNCIL
19 MEETINGS.

20 7–12B–05.

21 (A) THE COUNCIL SHALL PROVIDE ADVICE AND MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS
22 TO THE ADMINISTRATION ON:

23 (1) ADMINISTRATION–OPERATED MEDICAID WAIVER PROGRAM
24 SYSTEM DESIGN, INCLUDING WAIVER APPLICATION REGULATIONS AND POLICIES;

25 (2) SERVICE DELIVERY AND ACCESS TO SERVICES;

26 (3) FEDERAL WAIVER ASSURANCES;

27 (4) ENSURING ACCESS TO MEDICAID SERVICES;

28 (5) QUALITY ENHANCEMENT EFFORTS AND IMPROVEMENT
29 STRATEGIES;
END OF PAGE 7

START OF PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 1244

1 (6) COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS, INCLUDING A
2 TRANSPARENT FEEDBACK PROCESS; AND

3 (7) COLLABORATIVE PROCESSES WITH STAKEHOLDERS.

4 (B) (1) THE COUNCIL SHALL VOTE ON THE ADVICE AND
5 RECOMMENDATIONS TO PROVIDE TO THE ADMINISTRATION UNDER SUBSECTION (A)
6 OF THIS SECTION.

7 (2) THE COUNCIL SHALL ATTEMPT TO REACH CONSENSUS AND ALL
8 MEMBERS SHALL BE AFFORDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD.

9 (3) IF CONSENSUS CANNOT BE REACHED ON A PARTICULAR ISSUE,
10 THE COUNCIL MAY VOTE WITH A 75% AGREEMENT THRESHOLD.

11 (4) (I) A COUNCIL MEMBER MAY NOT VOTE ON ANOTHER
12 MEMBER’S BEHALF.

13 (II) A COUNCIL MEMBER MAY DESIGNATE A PROXY FOR THE
14 MEMBER.

15 (III) A COUNCIL MEMBER’S PROXY MAY VOTE ON BEHALF OF A
16 MEMBER ONLY IF THE PROXY IS ATTENDING THE MEETING FOR THE MEMBER.

17 (IV) A COUNCIL MEMBER’S PROXY MAY NOT VOTE ON BEHALF OF
18 THE PROXY.

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the terms of the initial voting
20 members of the Maryland Development Disabilities Administration Waiver Advisory
21 Council shall expire as follows:

22 (1) ~~18~~ ~~20~~ 22 members in 2027; and

23 (2) ~~17~~ ~~19~~ 21 members in 2028.

24 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
25 October 1, 2025.
END OF PAGE 8