START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1243

J5 5lr2645
CF SB 975

By: ~~Delegate~~ ~~S.~~ ~~Johnson~~ Delegates S. Johnson, Alston, Bagnall, Bhandari,
Chisholm, Cullison, Guzzone, Hill, Hutchinson, Kaiser, Kerr, Kipke, Lopez,
Martinez, M. Morgan, Pena–Melnyk, Reilly, Rosenberg, Ross, Szeliga,
Taveras, White Holland, Woods, and Woorman
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Health and Government Operations

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 1, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Health Insurance – Coverage for Specialty Drugs

3 FOR the purpose of prohibiting certain insurers, nonprofit health service plans, and health
4 maintenance organizations from excluding coverage for certain specialty drugs that
5 are administered or dispensed by a provider that meets certain criteria; requiring
6 the reimbursement rate for certain specialty drugs to meet certain criteria; and
7 generally relating to health insurance coverage for specialty drugs.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
9 Article – Insurance
10 Section 15–847(a)(1) and (5)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
14 Article – Insurance
15 Section 15–847(d), 15–1611.1, and 15–1612
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 BY adding to
19 Article – Insurance

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1243*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1243

1 Section 15–847(h) and 15–847.2
2 Annotated Code of Maryland
3 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

4 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
5 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

6 Article – Insurance

7 15–847.

8 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

9 (5) (i) “Specialty drug” means a prescription drug that:

10 1. is prescribed for an individual with a complex or chronic
11 medical condition or a rare medical condition;

12 2. costs $600 or more for up to a 30–day supply;

13 3. is not typically stocked at retail pharmacies; and

14 4. A. requires a difficult or unusual process of delivery to
15 the patient in the preparation, handling, storage, inventory, or distribution of the drug; or

16 B. requires enhanced patient education, management, or
17 support, beyond those required for traditional dispensing, before or after administration of
18 the drug.

19 (ii) “Specialty drug” does not include a prescription drug prescribed
20 to treat diabetes, HIV, or AIDS.

21 (d) Subject to SUBSECTION (H) OF THIS SECTION AND § 15–805 of this subtitle
22 [and], notwithstanding § 15–806 of this subtitle, [nothing in] AND EXCEPT AS PROVIDED
23 IN § 15–847.2 OF THIS SUBTITLE, this article or regulations adopted under this article
24 [precludes] DO NOT PRECLUDE an entity subject to this section from requiring a covered
25 specialty drug to be obtained through:

26 (1) a designated pharmacy or other source authorized under the Health
27 Occupations Article to dispense or administer prescription drugs; or

28 (2) a pharmacy participating in the entity’s provider network, if the entity
29 determines that the pharmacy:

30 (i) meets the entity’s performance standards; and

31 (ii) accepts the entity’s network reimbursement rates.
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1243 3

1 (H) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO SUPERSEDE THE AUTHORITY
2 OF THE HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEW COMMISSION TO SET RATES FOR
3 SPECIALTY DRUGS ADMINISTERED TO PATIENTS IN A SETTING REGULATED BY THE
4 HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEW COMMISSION.

5 15–847.2.

6 (A) IN THIS SECTION, “SPECIALTY DRUG” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN §
7 15–847 OF THIS SUBTITLE.

8 (B) (1) THIS SECTION APPLIES TO:

9 (I) INSURERS AND NONPROFIT HEALTH SERVICE PLANS THAT
10 PROVIDE COVERAGE FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUGS UNDER INDIVIDUAL, GROUP, OR
11 BLANKET HEALTH INSURANCE POLICIES OR CONTRACTS THAT ARE ISSUED OR
12 DELIVERED IN THE STATE; AND

13 (II) HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS THAT PROVIDE
14 COVERAGE FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUGS UNDER INDIVIDUAL OR GROUP CONTRACTS
15 THAT ARE ISSUED OR DELIVERED IN THE STATE.

16 (2) AN INSURER, A NONPROFIT HEALTH SERVICE PLAN, OR A HEALTH
17 MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION THAT PROVIDES COVERAGE FOR PRESCRIPTION
18 DRUGS THROUGH A PHARMACY BENEFITS MANAGER IS SUBJECT TO THE
19 REQUIREMENTS OF THIS SECTION.

20 (C) AN ENTITY SUBJECT TO THIS SECTION MAY NOT EXCLUDE COVERAGE
21 FOR A COVERED SPECIALTY DRUG ADMINISTERED OR DISPENSED BY A PROVIDER
22 UNDER § 12–102 OF THE HEALTH OCCUPATIONS ARTICLE IF THE ENTITY
23 DETERMINES THAT:

24 (1) THE PROVIDER THAT ADMINISTERS OR DISPENSES THE COVERED
25 SPECIALTY DRUG:

26 (I) IS AN IN–NETWORK PROVIDER OF COVERED MEDICAL
27 ONCOLOGY SERVICES; AND

28 (II) COMPLIES WITH STATE REGULATIONS FOR THE
29 ADMINISTERING AND DISPENSING OF SPECIALTY DRUGS; AND

30 (2) THE COVERED SPECIALTY DRUG IS:
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1243

1 (I) INFUSED, AUTO–INJECTED, OR AN ORAL TARGETED
2 IMMUNE MODULATOR; OR

3 (II) AN ORAL MEDICATION THAT:

4 1. REQUIRES COMPLEX DOSING BASED ON CLINICAL
5 PRESENTATION; OR

6 2. IS USED CONCOMITANTLY WITH OTHER INFUSION OR
7 RADIATION THERAPIES.

8 (D) (1) THE SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (F) OF THIS SECTION, THE
9 REIMBURSEMENT RATE FOR SPECIALTY DRUGS COVERED UNDER THIS SECTION
10 SHALL BE:

11 (1) (I) AGREED TO BY THE COVERED, IN–NETWORK PROVIDER AND
12 THE ENTITY SUBJECT TO THIS SECTION; AND

13 (2) (II) BILLED AT A NONHOSPITAL LEVEL OF CARE OR PLACE OF
14 SERVICE.

15 (2) UNLESS OTHERWISE AGREED TO BY THE COVERED, IN–NETWORK
16 PROVIDER AND THE ENTITY SUBJECT TO THIS SECTION, THE REIMBURSEMENT RATE
17 FOR SPECIALTY DRUGS COVERED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY NOT EXCEED THE RATE
18 APPLICABLE TO A DESIGNATED SPECIALTY PHARMACY FOR DISPENSING THE
19 COVERED SPECIALTY DRUGS.

20 (E) THIS SECTION DOES NOT PROHIBIT AN ENTITY SUBJECT TO THIS
21 SECTION FROM REFUSING TO AUTHORIZE OR APPROVE OR FROM DENYING
22 COVERAGE FOR A COVERED SPECIALTY DRUG ADMINISTERED OR DISPENSED BY A
23 PROVIDER IF ADMINISTERING OR DISPENSING THE DRUG FAILS TO SATISFY
24 MEDICAL NECESSITY CRITERIA.

25 (F) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO SUPERSEDE THE AUTHORITY
26 OF THE HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEW COMMISSION TO SET RATES FOR
27 SPECIALTY DRUGS ADMINISTERED TO PATIENTS IN A SETTING REGULATED BY THE
28 HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEW COMMISSION.

29 15–1611.1.

30 (a) This section applies only to a pharmacy benefits manager that provides
31 pharmacy benefits management services on behalf of a carrier.
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1243 5

1 (b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, a pharmacy benefits
2 manager may not require that a beneficiary use a specific pharmacy or entity to fill a
3 prescription if:

4 (1) the pharmacy benefits manager or a corporate affiliate of the pharmacy
5 benefits manager has an ownership interest in the pharmacy or entity; or

6 (2) the pharmacy or entity has an ownership interest in the pharmacy
7 benefits manager or a corporate affiliate of the pharmacy benefits manager.

8 (c) [A] EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN § 15–847.2 OF THIS TITLE, A pharmacy
9 benefits manager may require a beneficiary to use a specific pharmacy or entity for a
10 specialty drug as defined in § 15–847 of this title.

11 15–1612.

12 (a) This section applies only to a pharmacy benefits manager that provides
13 pharmacy benefits management services on behalf of a carrier.

14 (b) This section does not apply to reimbursement:

15 (1) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN § 15–847.2 OF THIS TITLE, for specialty
16 drugs;

17 (2) for mail order drugs; or

18 (3) to a chain pharmacy with more than 15 stores or a pharmacist who is
19 an employee of the chain pharmacy.

20 (c) A pharmacy benefits manager may not reimburse a pharmacy or pharmacist
21 for a pharmaceutical product or pharmacist service in an amount less than the amount that
22 the pharmacy benefits manager reimburses itself or an affiliate for providing the same
23 product or service.

24 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall apply to all
25 policies, contracts, and health benefit plans issued, delivered, or renewed in the State on or
26 after January 1, 2026.

27 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
28 January 1, 2026.
END OF PAGE 5