PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1281

A2 5lr2771

By: Delegate Kipke
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Economic Matters

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Anne Arundel County – Alcoholic Beverages – Limited ~~Cultural~~ Special Event
3 Permit

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Anne Arundel
5 County to issue a limited ~~cultural~~ special event permit to holders of certain alcoholic
6 beverages licenses; authorizing a permit holder to provide ~~cultural~~ music, ~~cultural~~
7 dancing, and other legal forms of ~~cultural~~ entertainment ~~on~~ ~~a~~ ~~specific~~ ~~date~~ ~~stated~~ ~~in~~
8 ~~the~~ ~~permit~~ ~~application;~~ and generally relating to alcoholic beverages in Anne Arundel
9 County.

10 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
11 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
12 Section 11–102
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2024 Replacement Volume)

15 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
16 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
17 Section 11–1102
18 Annotated Code of Maryland
19 (2024 Replacement Volume)

20 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
21 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1281*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1281

1 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

2 11–102.

3 This title applies only in Anne Arundel County.

4 11–1102.

5 (a) (1) On the premises, or on adjacent property over which a license holder
6 has ownership or control, a license holder:

7 (i) may allow piped–in background music or one television screen;
8 but

9 (ii) unless issued a permit described in this section that authorizes
10 the activity, may not allow:

11 1. the playing of music, including live music;

12 2. the operation of a karaoke machine;

13 3. the playing of music by a disc jockey; or

14 4. dancing, floor shows, or any other similar type of
15 entertainment.

16 (2) The Board may issue a permit described in this section only if the Board
17 finds that:

18 (i) the applicant can control the individuals using the licensed
19 premises;

20 (ii) the operation of the premises under the permit will not unduly
21 disturb the peace of the residents of the neighborhood in which the place of business is
22 located; and

23 (iii) the issuing of the permit:

24 1. is necessary to accommodate the public;

25 2. will not be detrimental to the public welfare; and

26 3. will not violate a county fire, health, or building
27 regulation.

28 (b) (1) There is a music permit.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1281 3

1 (2) The Board may issue the permit to a holder of a Class B license, a Class
2 BLX license, a Class D license, or a Class H license.

3 (3) The permit authorizes the playing of recorded music or live music with
4 not more than two musicians.

5 (4) The permit holder may not allow dancing, floor shows, or similar live
6 entertainment.

7 (5) The annual permit fee is $100.

8 (c) (1) There is an entertainment permit.

9 (2) The Board may issue the permit to a holder of a Class B license, a Class
10 BLX license, a Class D license, or a Class H license.

11 (3) The permit authorizes:

12 (i) live music with not more than four musicians; and

13 (ii) the playing of:

14 1. more than one television;

15 2. a karaoke machine; and

16 3. music by a disc jockey.

17 (4) The permit holder may not allow dancing, floor shows, or similar live
18 entertainment.

19 (5) The annual permit fees are:

20 (i) $200 for a holder of a beer and wine license; and

21 (ii) $300 for a holder of a beer, wine, and liquor license.

22 (d) (1) There is a dancing permit.

23 (2) The Board may issue the permit to a holder of:

24 (i) a Class B license;

25 (ii) except as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, a Class
26 BLX license;

27 (iii) a Class C license;

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1281

1 (iv) a Class D license; or

2 (v) except as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection, a Class H
3 license.

4 (3) The permit authorizes the holder to provide music, dancing, and other
5 legal forms of entertainment.

6 (4) The Board may not issue the permit to a holder of a Class BLX license
7 or a Class H license if the premises for which the Class BLX license or Class H license is
8 issued is within 1,000 feet in a straight line from entry to entry from a place of worship or
9 school.

10 (5) The annual permit fees are:

11 (i) $200 for a holder of a beer and wine license;

12 (ii) $400 for a holder of a beer, wine, and liquor license; and

13 (iii) no charge for a holder of a Class C license.

(E) (1) THERE PERMIT.14 IS A LIMITED ~~CULTURAL~~ SPECIAL EVENT

(2) THE BOARD, DISCRETION,15 IN ITS SOLE MAY ISSUE THE PERMIT TO
OF:16 A HOLDER

(I) CLASS B LICENSE;17 A

(II) (4)18 EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, CLASS BLX LICENSE;19 A

(III) CLASS C LICENSE;20 A

(IV) CLASS D LICENSE;21 A OR

(V) (4)22 EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, CLASS H LICENSE.23 A

(3) THE24 PERMIT AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO PROVIDE ~~CULTURAL~~
MUSIC, DANCING,25 ~~CULTURAL~~ AND OTHER LEGAL FORMS OF ~~CULTURAL~~
~~1~~26 ENTERTAINMENT ~~FOR~~ ~~DAY~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~ ~~SPECIFIC~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERMIT~~
~~APPLICATION.~~27

(4) THE BOARD28 MAY NOT ISSUE THE PERMIT TO A HOLDER OF A
CLASS BLX CLASS H29 LICENSE OR A LICENSE IF THE PREMISES FOR WHICH THE

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1281 5

CLASS BLX CLASS H 1,0001 LICENSE OR LICENSE IS ISSUED IS WITHIN FEET IN A
SCHOOL.2 STRAIGHT LINE FROM ENTRY TO ENTRY FROM A PLACE OF WORSHIP OR

(5) BEFORE PERMIT, BOARD3 ISSUING A THE MAY REQUIRE A LICENSE
4 HOLDER TO PROVIDE INFORMATION ON THE PLANNED ~~CULTURAL~~ EVENT FOR
REQUESTED, ~~INCLUDING:~~5 WHICH THE PERMIT IS

~~(I)~~ ~~EVENT;~~6 ~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~PLANNED.~~7 ~~THE~~ ~~TYPE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~CULTURAL~~ ~~ENTERTAINMENT~~

~~(6)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ARE:~~8 ~~PERMIT~~ ~~FEES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~CULTURAL~~ ~~EVENT~~

~~(I)~~ ~~$15~~ ~~LICENSE;~~9 ~~PER~~ ~~DAY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~BEER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~WINE~~

~~(II)~~ ~~$25~~ ~~BEER,~~ ~~WINE,~~10 ~~PER~~ ~~DAY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~AND~~ ~~LIQUOR~~
~~LICENSE;~~11 ~~AND~~

~~(III)~~ ~~CLASS~~ ~~C~~ ~~LICENSE.~~12 ~~NO~~ ~~CHARGE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~

[(e)] (F)13 (1) There is an outdoor permit.

14 (2) The Board may issue the permit to a holder of a Class B license, a Class
15 BLX license, a Class C license, a Class D license, or a Class H license.

16 (3) The permit authorizes the holder to provide outdoor table service to
17 customers on the grounds of the licensed establishment.

18 (4) The annual permit fee is $100.

19 (5) Before the permit may be renewed, a holder shall obtain approval from
20 the Board.

[(f)] (G)21 (1) There is an outdoor entertainment permit.

22 (2) The Board may issue the permit to a holder of a Class B license, a Class
23 BLX license, a Class C license, a Class D license, or a Class H license who also holds a
24 music permit, an entertainment permit, or a dancing permit under this section.

25 (3) The permit authorizes the holder to provide:

26 (i) the same form of entertainment outdoors that the holder is
27 allowed to provide indoors under the holder’s music permit, entertainment permit, or
28 dancing permit; and

29 (ii) outdoor table service or cafe service.

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1281

1 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
2 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.