PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1293

E4, A2 (5lr3407)
ENROLLED BILL
— Judiciary/Judicial Proceedings —
Introduced by Delegates Smith, Addison, Embry, and Young

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Baltimore City – Office of the Sheriff – Neighborhood Services Unit

3 FOR the purpose of establishing the Neighborhood Services Unit within the Office of the
4 Sheriff of Baltimore City; requiring the Neighborhood Services Unit and the Board
5 of License Commissioners of Baltimore City to work in partnership to enforce the
6 alcoholic beverages laws of Baltimore City and to enter into a memorandum of
7 understanding that specifies the respective roles and responsibilities of the parties
8 and funding in connection with the partnership; requiring the Neighborhood
9 Services Unit to perform any other duties as directed by the Sheriff of Baltimore
10 City; expanding the authorized uses of certain revenue to include the work of the
11 Neighborhood Services Unit; and generally relating to the Office of the Sheriff of
12 Baltimore City.

13 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
14 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1293*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1293

1 Section 12–101(a) and (b) and 12–209
2 Annotated Code of Maryland
3 (2024 Replacement Volume)

4 BY adding to
5 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
6 Section 12–2605
7 Annotated Code of Maryland
8 (2024 Replacement Volume)

9 BY adding to
10 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
11 Section 2–316.1
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
15 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
16 Section 7–301(c)(1) and (2)
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

19 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
20 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
21 Section 7–301(c)(3)
22 Annotated Code of Maryland
23 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

24 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
25 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

26 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

27 12–101.

28 (a) In this title:

29 (1) except as provided in subsection (e) of this section, the definitions in §
30 1–101 of this article apply without exception or variation; and

31 (2) the following words have the meanings indicated.

32 (b) “Board” means the Board of License Commissioners for Baltimore City.

33 12–209.

34 The Mayor and City Council shall:

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1293 3

1 (1) pay from the general fund of the City that includes revenue from the
2 Board the salaries and expenses of the Board and its employees; and

3 (2) devote the balance of the revenue from the Board to the general purposes
4 of the City.

12–2605.5

(A) IN SECTION, “UNIT” NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES UNIT6 THIS MEANS THE
OFFICE SHERIFF BALTIMORE CITY,7 WITHIN THE OF THE OF AS ESTABLISHED
§ 2–316.1 COURTS ARTICLE.8 UNDER OF THE

(B) THE BOARD UNIT9 SHALL WORK IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE TO
TITLE.10 ENFORCE THIS

(C) THE BOARD11 SHALL ENTER INTO A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
UNIT SPECIFIES:12 WITH THE THAT

(1)13 THE RESPECTIVE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES
(B)14 IN CONNECTION WITH THE PARTNERSHIP DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION;15 AND

(2) § 12–209 TITLE,16 IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS THE FUNDING
UNIT.17 SOURCE FOR THE

18 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

2–316.1.19

(A) (1) IN20 THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.21

(2) “BOARD” BOARD LICENSE COMMISSIONERS22 MEANS THE OF OF
BALTIMORE CITY.23

(3) “UNIT” NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES UNIT24 MEANS THE WITHIN THE
OFFICE SHERIFF BALTIMORE CITY,25 OF THE OF AS ESTABLISHED UNDER
(B) SECTION.26 SUBSECTION OF THIS

(B) THERE NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES UNIT OFFICE27 IS A WITHIN THE OF
SHERIFF BALTIMORE CITY.28 THE OF

(C) THE UNIT SHALL:29

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1293

(1) WORK BOARD1 IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE TO ENFORCE THE
BALTIMORE CITY TITLE 122 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES LAWS OF UNDER OF THE
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES CANNABIS ARTICLE;3 AND AND

(2) PERFORM SHERIFF4 ANY OTHER DUTIES AS DIRECTED BY THE OF
BALTIMORE CITY.5

(D) THE UNIT6 SHALL ENTER INTO A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BOARD ~~THE:~~7 WITH THE THAT SPECIFIES

(1) THE8 RESPECTIVE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES
(C)(1)9 IN CONNECTION WITH THE PARTNERSHIP DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION;10 AND

(2) IN § 12–209 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES11 ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
CANNABIS ARTICLE, UNIT.12 AND THE FUNDING SOURCE FOR THE

13 7–301.

14 (c) (1) The filing fees and costs in a civil case are those prescribed by law
15 subject to modification by law, rule, or administrative regulation.

16 (2) The Chief Judge of the District Court shall assess a surcharge that:

17 (i) May not be more than:

18 1. $43 per summary ejectment case; and

19 2. $28 per case for all other civil cases; and

20 (ii) Shall be deposited:

21 1. For a surcharge assessed under item (i)1 of this
22 paragraph:

23 A. 45% into the Statewide Rental Assistance Voucher
24 Program established under § 4–2902 of the Housing and Community Development Article;

25 B. 45% into the Maryland Legal Services Corporation Fund
26 established under § 11–402 of the Human Services Article; and

27 C. 10% into the Rental Assistance for Community Schools
28 Families Fund established under § 9.9–104.1 of the Education Article; and

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1293 5

1 2. For a surcharge assessed under item (i)2 of this
2 paragraph, into the Maryland Legal Services Corporation Fund established under §
3 11–402 of the Human Services Article.

4 (3) (i) In addition to the surcharge assessed under paragraph (2) of this
5 subsection, the Chief Judge of the District Court shall assess a surcharge that may not be
6 more than $10 per case for the following cases filed in Baltimore City:

7 1. Summary ejectment;

8 2. Tenant holding over;

9 3. Breach of lease; and

10 4. Warrant of restitution.

11 (ii) The revenue generated from the surcharge on filing fees collected
12 by the District Court in Baltimore City under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall be:

13 1. Remitted quarterly to the Baltimore City Director of
14 Finance; and

[and],15 2. Used to fund the enhancement of sheriff benefits
orders,16 the increase in sheriff personnel to enhance the service of domestic violence AND
NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES UNIT OFFICE17 THE WORK OF THE WITHIN THE OF THE
SHERIFF BALTIMORE CITY.18 OF

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
20 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.