PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1380

J1, J3 5lr2113
CF SB 676

By: Delegates Pena–Melnyk, Acevero, Addison, Bagnall, Boyce, Cullison, Davis,
Harrison, Lehman, Patterson, Taveras, Terrasa, ~~and~~ ~~Wilson~~ Wilson,
Bhandari, Guzzone, Hill, S. Johnson, Kaiser, Kerr, Lopez, Martinez,
Rosenberg, White Holland, Woods, and Woorman
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Health and Government Operations

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 26, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Health Care Facilities – Hospitals and Freestanding Birthing Centers –
3 Perinatal Care Standards

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Health, in coordination with
5 the Maryland Institute for Emergency Medical Services Systems, to adopt
6 regulations establishing minimum perinatal care standards for certain hospitals
7 that meet or exceed the Maryland Perinatal System Standards; requiring certain
8 hospitals and freestanding birthing centers, as a condition of licensure, to comply
9 with certain minimum perinatal care standards; and generally relating to standards
10 of care for hospitals and freestanding birthing centers.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
12 Article – Health – General
13 Section 19–319(a) and 19–3B–02(a) and (b)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 BY adding to
17 Article – Health – General
18 Section 19–319(j) and 19–3B–03(a)(1)(ii)9.
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1380*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1380

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Health – General
3 Section 19–3B–03(a)(1)(ii)8. and 9.
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
7 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

8 Article – Health – General

9 19–319.

10 (a) To qualify for a license, an applicant and the hospital or related institution to
11 be operated shall meet the requirements of this section.

(J) (1) THE DEPARTMENT, MARYLAND12 IN COORDINATION WITH THE
INSTITUTE EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES SYSTEMS,13 FOR SHALL ADOPT
14 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHING MINIMUM PERINATAL CARE STANDARDS THAT MEET
MARYLAND PERINATAL SYSTEM STANDARDS15 OR EXCEED THE FOR EACH HOSPITAL
SERVICES.16 THAT PROVIDES OBSTETRICAL

(2) EACH17 HOSPITAL THAT PROVIDES OBSTETRICAL SERVICES SHALL
18 COMPLY WITH THE PERINATAL CARE STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY THE
(1)19 REGULATIONS ADOPTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION AS A
LICENSURE.20 CONDITION OF

21 19–3B–02.

22 (a) A freestanding ambulatory care facility may not operate in the State unless
23 the Secretary has granted the facility a license.

24 (b) The Secretary shall issue a license to an applicant that meets the
25 requirements of this subtitle and all applicable regulations adopted by the Secretary.

26 19–3B–03.

27 (a) (1) After consultation with representatives of payors, health care
28 practitioners, and freestanding ambulatory care facilities, the Secretary shall by regulation
29 establish:

30 (ii) Standards to ensure quality of care and patient safety that shall
31 include:

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1380 3

1 8. The use of ultrasound imaging in a freestanding birthing
[and]2 center;

9. MINIMUM3 PERINATAL CARE STANDARDS FOR A
MARYLAND4 FREESTANDING BIRTHING CENTER THAT MEET OR EXCEED THE
PERINATAL SYSTEM STANDARDS5 THAT A FREESTANDING BIRTHING CENTER SHALL
LICENSURE;6 MEET AS A CONDITION OF AND

[9.] 10.7 Any other procedures that the Secretary considers
8 necessary for quality of care and patient safety.

9 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Maryland Department of
10 Health shall adopt the regulations required under §§ 19–319(j)(1) and 19–3B–03(a)(1)(ii)9
11 of the Heath – General Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act, on or before October 1,
12 2026.

13 SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
14 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.