PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1334

L2 5lr1998
CF SB 639

By: Delegate Hinebaugh
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Health and Government Operations

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Garrett County – Bids and Contracts – Advertisement Exceptions

3 FOR the purpose of providing that, in Garrett County, a certain requirement to advertise
4 for bids does not apply to a certain contract for goods or services procured on an
5 as–needed basis over time or for certain vehicles; and generally relating to
6 procurement in Garrett County.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 The Public Local Laws of Garrett County
9 Section 30.21(A)
10 Article 12 – Public Local Laws of Maryland
11 (2005 Edition and 2022 Supplement, as amended)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article 12 – Garrett County

15 30.21.

(5) (6)16 (A) (1) Except for transactions under PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS
17 division (D) of this section, professional services required to be licensed byDIVISION OR
18 the State of Maryland, or as otherwise authorized by law, the County Commissioners, or
19 any employee of Garrett County, may not enter into any contract of sale or purchase to
20 which the county is a party where the amount involved under the contract exceeds $50,000

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1334*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1334

1 without advertising for bids in one or more newspapers circulated in the county.
2 Professional services required to be licensed by the State of Maryland may be solicited by
3 written bids.

4 (2) The advertisement for bids shall appear at least a week prior to the date
5 on which bids are to be filed.

6 (3) Any contract of sale shall be awarded to the highest responsible bidder,
7 and any contract of purchase shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, but the
8 County Commissioners shall have the right to reject any and all bids.

9 (4) Any contract entered into in violation of the provisions of this section
10 shall be null and void. The provisions of this section shall not apply to necessary repairs
11 made in case of emergency.

(5) THE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, GARRETT12 OR ANY EMPLOYEE OF
COUNTY,13 MAY ENTER INTO A PURCHASE OR WORK PROJECT CONTRACT FOR AN
AS–NEEDED14 INDETERMINATE AMOUNT OF GOODS OR SERVICES PROCURED ON AN
15 BASIS OVER A PERIOD OF TIME WITHOUT ADVERTISING FOR BIDS UNDER
(1) DIVISION. THIS16 PARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH APPLIES REGARDLESS OF
$50,000.17 WHETHER THE CUMULATIVE TOTAL EXCEEDS

(6) THE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, GARRETT18 OR ANY EMPLOYEE OF
COUNTY,19 MAY ENTER INTO A CONTRACT FOR THE PURCHASE OF ONE OR MORE
$100,00020 VEHICLES FOR AN AMOUNT UP TO WITHOUT ADVERTISING FOR BIDS
(1) DIVISION.21 UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

[(5)] (7)22 If any County Commissioner shall violate any provisions of this
23 division, the Commissioner shall be liable to indictment, and, upon conviction, shall forfeit
24 the office.

25 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
26 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.