START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1322

M1 (5lr1158)
ENROLLED BILL
— Environment and Transportation/Education, Energy, and the Environment —
Introduced by Delegates Pena–Melnyk, Lehman, Boyce, Cullison, Davis, Feldmark,
Guzzone, Hill, R. Lewis, Stein, Stewart, Terrasa, Woorman, ~~and~~ ~~Ziegler~~
Ziegler, Allen, Behler, Foley, Guyton, Healey, and Ruth

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Natural Resources – Vessels – Carbon Monoxide Warning Labels
3 (Matthew’s Law)

4 FOR the purpose of prohibiting a person from operating a gasoline–powered vessel
5 manufactured after a certain date that has accommodation spaces, swim platforms,
6 or aft lounging areas on the waters of the State unless the vessel has carbon
7 monoxide warning labels affixed in conspicuous locations in certain areas of the
8 vessel; prohibiting the Department of Natural Resources from imposing a certain
9 penalty; and generally relating to the State Boat Act.

10 BY adding to
11 Article – Natural Resources
12 Section 8–740.2

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1322*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1322

1 Annotated Code of Maryland
2 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

3 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
4 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

5 Article – Natural Resources

6 8–740.2.

7 (A) A PERSON MAY NOT OPERATE A GASOLINE–POWERED VESSEL
8 MANUFACTURED AFTER JULY 31, 2007, THAT HAS ACCOMMODATION SPACES, SWIM
9 PLATFORMS, OR AFT LOUNGING AREAS ON THE WATERS OF THE STATE UNLESS THE
10 VESSEL HAS CARBON MONOXIDE WARNING LABELS AFFIXED IN CONSPICUOUS
11 LOCATIONS IN THE VICINITY OF BOTH THE TRANSOM AND THE HELM OF THE VESSEL.

12 (B) THE DEPARTMENT MAY NOT IMPOSE A PENALTY ON A PERSON THAT
13 VIOLATES THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION.

14 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
15 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.
END OF PAGE 2