PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1371

R4 5lr0811

By: Delegate Terrasa
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 5, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Vehicle Laws – Driver’s Licenses – Electronic Credentials
3 (Maryland Mobile ID Enhancement Act)

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing the Motor Vehicle Administration to enter into an
5 agreement to facilitate the issuance, use, and verification of electronic credentials
6 through a national association of motor vehicle agencies; authorizing an individual
7 who will operate a rented vehicle to use a certain electronic credential showing a
8 representation of a valid driver’s license, instead of a driver’s license, to rent the
9 vehicle; and generally relating to the use of electronic credentials.

10 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
11 Article – Transportation
12 Section 16–1002 and 18–103(a) and (b)
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

15 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
16 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

17 Article – Transportation

18 16–1002.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1371*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1371

1 (a) The Administration may issue an electronic credential to an individual in
2 addition to, and not instead of, a license or an identification card if the Administration has
3 issued to the individual:

4 (1) A license; or

5 (2) An identification card under § 12–301 of this article.

6 (b) The Administration may enter into agreements with an agency of the State,
States,7 another state, or the United OR THROUGH A NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MOTOR
AGENCIES,8 to facilitate the issuance, use, and verification of electronicVEHICLE
9 credentials issued by the Administration or another state.

10 (c) The Administration may create an electronic credential that:

11 (1) Is capable of producing both a full profile and a limited profile; and

12 (2) Satisfies the purpose for which the profile is being presented.

13 (d) The Administration shall design the electronic credential in a manner that
14 allows the credential holder to maintain physical possession of the device on which the
15 electronic credential is accessed during verification.

16 18–103.

17 (a) A person may not rent a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer to any other
18 person unless the individual who will operate the rented vehicle:

(I)19 (1) Holds a driver’s license issued under Title 16 of this article,
[him]20 which license authorizes to drive or tow, as the case may be,THE INDIVIDUAL
21 vehicles of the class rented; OR

(II) POSSESSES22 AN ELECTRONIC CREDENTIAL ISSUED UNDER
TITLE 16, SUBTITLE 1023 OF THIS ARTICLE SHOWING A REPRESENTATION OF A VALID
DRIVER’S LICENSE;24

25 (2) Is a nonresident who:

1. [him]26 (i) Has with a license to drive issuedTHE INDIVIDUAL
[him] [his] INDIVIDUAL’S27 to by the state or country of residence,THE INDIVIDUAL THE
[him]28 which license authorizes in that state or country to drive or tow,THE INDIVIDUAL
29 as the case may be, vehicles of the class rented; OR

2. POSSESSES30 AN ELECTRONIC CREDENTIAL ISSUED BY
INDIVIDUAL’S31 THE STATE OF RESIDENCE SHOWING A REPRESENTATION OF A VALID
DRIVER’S LICENSE, INDIVIDUAL’S32 IF THE STATE OF RESIDENCE HAS ENTERED INTO

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1371 3

ADMINISTRATION § 16–1002(B)1 A FACILITATION AGREEMENT WITH THE UNDER OF
ARTICLE;2 andTHIS

3 (ii) Is at least the same age as that required of a resident to drive or
4 tow, as the case may be, the vehicle rented; or

5 (3) Otherwise is specifically authorized by Title 16 of this article to drive
6 or tow, as the case may be, vehicles of the class rented.

7 (b) (1) A person may not rent a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer to any
8 other person unless the lessor or his agent:

9 (i) Has inspected the license to drive OR ELECTRONIC
10 of the individual who will operate the rented vehicle;CREDENTIAL

11 (ii) Has compared and verified:

12 1. The signature on the license OR ELECTRONIC
13 with the signature of the individual, as written in the presence of the lessorCREDENTIAL
14 or agent; and

15 2. The physical description on the license OR ELECTRONIC
16 with the physical appearance of the individual; andCREDENTIAL

17 (iii) Has verified that the license is not expired.

18 (2) An inspection of a license underOR AN ELECTRONIC CREDENTIAL
19 this section may be through electronic or digital means.

20 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act may not be construed
21 to affect the ability of the Motor Vehicle Administration to authorize and implement the
22 use of electronic credentials in matters other than rental vehicle transactions.

23 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
24 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.