PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1347

A3, C3 (5lr2739)
ENROLLED BILL
— Economic Matters/Finance —
Introduced by Delegate Adams

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
Speaker.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 ~~Cannabis~~ ~~Agents~~ ~~–~~ ~~Registration~~ ~~–~~ Security Guards and Security Guard
3 Employers – Registration, Certification, and Regulation

4 FOR the purpose of providing that a cannabis agent who is employed to provide security
5 services for a cannabis licensee or cannabis registrant as a security guard or by a
6 security guard agency is not required to obtain a State or national criminal history
7 records check if the cannabis agent is authorized to provide security guard services
8 in accordance with certain provisions of law; ~~and~~ ~~generally~~ ~~relating~~ ~~to~~ ~~cannabis~~ ~~agent~~
9 ~~registration~~ ~~and~~ ~~security~~ ~~guards~~ altering the definition of “security guard employer”
10 for purposes of provisions of law governing the regulation of security guards, security
11 guard agencies, and security guard employers to exclude video lottery facilities, sports
12 wagering facility licensees, and health care facilities; and generally relating to the
13 registration, certification, and regulation of security guards and security guard
14 employers.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*hb1347*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1347

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
3 Section 36–501
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2024 Replacement Volume)

6 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
7 Article – Business Occupations and Professions
8 Section 19–101(a), (k), and (l), 19–201, and 19–401(c)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
12 Article – Business Occupations and Professions
13 Section 19–101(m)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
17 Article – State Government
18 Section 9–1A–14(a) and (b) and 9–1E–03(a)(1)
19 Annotated Code of Maryland
20 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

21 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
22 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

23 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

24 36–501.

25 (a) A cannabis agent must be registered with the Administration before the agent
26 may volunteer or work for a cannabis licensee or cannabis registrant.

27 (b) A cannabis agent registration is valid for 2 years.

(1) [To] EXCEPT (2)28 (c) AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION,29 register as a cannabis agent with the Administration, an individualTO
30 must:

[(1)] (I)31 be at least 21 years old; and

[(2)] (II)32 if the records are legally accessible, obtain a State and national
33 criminal history records check in accordance with § 36–505 of this subtitle.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1347 3

(2) A1 CANNABIS AGENT WHO IS EMPLOYED TO PROVIDE SECURITY
2 SERVICES FOR A CANNABIS LICENSEE OR CANNABIS REGISTRANT AS A SECURITY
AGENCY, § 19–1013 GUARD OR BY A SECURITY GUARD AS DEFINED IN OF THE
BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE,4 AND IS NOT REQUIRED TO
STATE5 OBTAIN A OR NATIONAL CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORDS CHECK IN
§ 36–5056 ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS SUBTITLE IF THE CANNABIS AGENT IS
TITLE 19, SUBTITLE7 AUTHORIZED TO PROVIDE SECURITY GUARD SERVICES UNDER
4 BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE.8 OF THE AND

9 (d) (1) The Administration may not register as a cannabis agent an individual
10 who does not meet the criteria established under subsection (c) of this section.

11 (2) The Administration may disqualify an individual from registering as a
12 cannabis agent if the individual has been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a crime
13 involving moral turpitude, whether or not any appeal or other proceeding is pending to
14 have the conviction or plea set aside.

15 (e) The Administration may not deny a cannabis agent registration based on any
16 cannabis–related offenses occurring before July 1, 2023.

17 (f) A cannabis licensee shall require each registered cannabis agent to complete
18 an annual responsible vendor training program authorized under this title.

19 (g) A registration of a cannabis agent issued by the Natalie M. LaPrade Medical
20 Cannabis Commission on or before July 1, 2023, shall:

21 (1) be valid under this title; and

22 (2) authorize the cannabis agent to be employed by or volunteer with a
23 licensed cannabis business.

24 Article – Business Occupations and Professions

25 19–101.

26 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

27 (k) “Security guard” means an individual who, regardless of whether the
28 individual is described as a security guard, watchman, or private patrolman or by other
29 title:

30 (1) (i) is an employee of a security guard agency; and

31 (ii) provides security guard services to another person on behalf of
32 the security guard agency; or

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1347

1 (2) (i) is an employee of a security guard employer; and

2 (ii) provides security guard services to the security guard employer.

3 (l) (1) “Security guard agency” means a person who conducts a business that
4 provides security guard services.

5 (2) “Security guard agency” does not include:

6 (i) a person that is primarily engaged in the business of owning,
7 maintaining, or otherwise managing property; or

8 (ii) a security guard employer.

9 (m) (1) “Security guard employer” means a person who employs security guards
10 only to provide security guard services to the person.

include:11 (2) “Security guard employer” does not

(I) agency;12 a security guard

(II) OPERATOR, §13 A VIDEO LOTTERY AS DEFINED UNDER
9–1A–01 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE;14 OF THE

(III) LICENSEE,15 A SPORTS WAGERING FACILITY AS DEFINED
§ 9–1E–01 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE;16 UNDER OF THE OR

(IV) FACILITY, § 19–11417 A HEALTH CARE AS DEFINED UNDER OF
HEALTH – GENERAL ARTICLE.18 THE

19 19–201.

20 Subject to the provisions of this title, the Secretary is responsible for the licensing of
21 security guard agencies and the regulation of those persons who provide security guard
22 services in the State.

23 19–401.

24 (c) Except as provided under subsection (d) of this section, a security guard
25 employer may employ a security guard to provide security guard services only if the
26 individual is certified by the Secretary as a security guard.

27 Article – State Government

28 9–1A–14.

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1347 5

1 (a) Unless an individual holds a valid video lottery employee license or temporary
2 video lottery employee license issued by the Commission, the individual may not be employed
3 by a video lottery operation licensee as a video lottery employee.

4 (b) Before issuance of a video lottery employee license, an applicant shall provide
5 sufficient information, documentation, and assurances that the Commission may require.

6 9–1E–03.

7 (a) (1) Unless the context requires otherwise, the requirements under §§
8 9–1A–04, 9–1A–06, 9–1A–07, 9–1A–08, 9–1A–12, 9–1A–14, 9–1A–18, 9–1A–19, 9–1A–20, and
9 9–1A–25 of this title apply to the authority, duties, and responsibilities of the Commission,
10 a sports wagering licensee, and an employee or a contractor of a sports wagering licensee
11 under this subtitle.

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
13 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.