PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1375

R6 5lr2439

By: ~~Delegate~~ ~~Stein~~ Delegates Stein, Addison, Foley, Healey, and Terrasa
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Vehicle Equipment – Portable Variable Messaging Signs – Authorization

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing a tow truck to display a portable variable messaging sign
4 mounted on the tow truck while at the scene of ~~an~~ ~~accident~~ a crash or a disabled
5 vehicle; and generally relating to portable variable messaging signs.

6 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
7 Article – Transportation
8 Section 22–218(c)(1)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
12 Article – Transportation
13 Section 22–218(c)(6) and 22–218.2(a)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
17 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

18 Article – Transportation

19 22–218.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1375*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1375

1 (c) (1) A person may not drive or move on any highway any vehicle or
2 equipment that is equipped with or displays any light or signal device designed to emit an
3 oscillating, rotating, blinking, or other type of emission of light, unless designated and
4 authorized by the Administrator as indicated in paragraphs (2) through (13) of this
5 subsection. The provisions of this section do not prohibit the display and use of any lighting
6 device that may be permitted or required elsewhere in the Maryland Vehicle Law.

7 (6) (i) Service vehicles, waste or recycling collection vehicles, rural
8 letter carrier vehicles, slow moving farm vehicles, and tow trucks may be equipped with or
9 display yellow or amber lights or signal devices.

10 (ii) Highway maintenance and service equipment or vehicles owned
11 by the State or a local jurisdiction, or operating under a contract with the State or a local
12 jurisdiction, that are equipped with and displaying yellow or amber flashing lights while in
13 use for snow removal or the protection of highway maintenance workers may
14 simultaneously be equipped with and display green flashing lights in a number up to the
15 number of yellow or amber flashing lights equipped and displayed.

(III) 1. A16 TOW TRUCK MAY DISPLAY A PORTABLE VARIABLE
17 MESSAGING SIGN MOUNTED ON THE TOW TRUCK WHILE AT THE SCENE OF ~~AN~~
VEHICLE.18 ~~ACCIDENT~~ A CRASH OR A DISABLED

2. THE SHALL:19 PORTABLE VARIABLE MESSAGING SIGN

A. CONFORM20 TO THE STANDARDS ESTABLISHED IN THE
STATE21 MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES ADOPTED BY THE
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION § 25–104 ARTICLE;22 UNDER OF THIS AND

B. DISPLAY23 ONLY THOSE MESSAGES APPROVED FOR USE
STATE HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION.24 BY THE

25 22–218.2.

26 (a) (1) One or more amber flashing lights may be displayed:

27 (i) By a tow truck while at the scene of an accident or a disabled
28 vehicle or while towing a vehicle; and

29 (ii) By snow removal and other highway maintenance and service
30 equipment and escort vehicles.

31 (2) Highway maintenance and service equipment or vehicles owned by the
32 State or a local jurisdiction, or operating under a contract with the State or a local
33 jurisdiction, may display green flashing lights only in accordance with § 22–218(c)(6) of this
34 subtitle.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1375 3

(3) A1 TOW TRUCK MAY DISPLAY A PORTABLE VARIABLE MESSAGING
§ 22–218(C)(6) SUBTITLE.2 SIGN ONLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

3 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
4 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.