PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1443

L1, L3 5lr2621
CF SB 872

By: Delegates Griffith, Rogers, Allen, Buckel, A. Johnson, S. Johnson, Korman,
Pippy, ~~and~~ ~~Wilson~~ Wilson, and Guyton
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 5, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Local Government – Hiring and Promotion Preferences for Veterans and
3 Spouses of Service Members and Veterans
4 (Families Serve Act)

5 FOR the purpose of authorizing counties and municipalities to grant, ~~by~~ ~~local~~ ~~law,~~ a
6 preference in the hiring and promotion to eligible veterans, spouses of eligible service
7 members, spouses of certain eligible veterans and eligible service members, and
8 surviving spouses of deceased eligible veterans; authorizing counties and
9 municipalities to adopt a local law that allows for the application of a certain credit
10 on a selection test for eligible spouses, eligible veterans, spouses of certain eligible
11 veterans, and surviving spouses of deceased eligible veterans; and generally relating
12 to hiring and promotion preferences for veterans and spouses of service members
13 and veterans.

14 BY renumbering
15 Article – Local Government
16 Section 1–204 through 1–206
17 to be Section 1–205 through 1–207, respectively
18 Annotated Code of Maryland
19 (2013 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

20 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
21 Article – Labor and Employment
22 Section 3–714

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1443*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1443

1 Annotated Code of Maryland
2 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

3 BY adding to
4 Article – Local Government
5 Section 1–204
6 Annotated Code of Maryland
7 (2013 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Local Government
10 Section 12–109(a)(2)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2013 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
14 Article – State Personnel and Pensions
15 Section 7–207(c)(1)
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2024 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
19 That Section(s) 1–204 through 1–206 of Article – Local Government of the Annotated Code
20 of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 1–205 through 1–207, respectively.

21 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
22 as follows:

23 Article – Labor and Employment

24 3–714.

25 (a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

26 (2) “Eligible service member” means a full–time active duty member of any
27 branch of the uniformed services of the United States.

28 (3) “Eligible veteran” means a veteran of any branch of the uniformed
29 services of the United States who has received an honorable discharge or a certificate of
30 satisfactory completion of service, including:

31 (i) the National Guard;

32 (ii) the military reserves;

33 (iii) the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service; and

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1443 3

1 (iv) the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and
2 Atmospheric Administration.

(4) “EMPLOYER” CORPORATION.3 INCLUDES A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL

[An] SUBJECT (D) SECTION,4 (b) employer mayTO SUBSECTION OF THIS AN
5 grant a preference in hiring and promotion to:

6 (1) an eligible veteran;

7 (2) the spouse of an eligible veteran who has a service–connected disability;

8 (3) the spouse of an eligible service member; or

9 (4) the surviving spouse of a deceased eligible veteran.

10 (c) Granting a preference under subsection (b) of this section does not violate any
11 State or local equal employment opportunity law.

(D) ~~FOR~~ IF12 AN EMPLOYER ~~WHO~~ THAT IS A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL
(B)13 CORPORATION CHOOSES TO GRANT A PREFERENCE UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION,14 THE COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION ~~SHALL~~ MAY ADOPT A LOCAL
15 LAW THAT PROVIDES FOR THE HIRING AND PROMOTION PREFERENCE ~~AUTHORIZED~~
~~(B)~~16 ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ BEFORE IMPLEMENTING THE
PREFERENCE.17

18 Article – Local Government

1–204.19

(A) (1) IN20 THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.21

(2) “ELIGIBLE SPOUSE” § 7–20722 HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE.23 AND

(3) “ELIGIBLE VETERAN” § 7–20724 HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF
STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE.25 THE AND

(B) (1) IF26 A COUNTY OR MUNICIPALITY USES A SELECTION TEST FOR THE
EMPLOYEES,27 HIRING OR APPOINTMENT OF THE COUNTY OR MUNICIPALITY MAY
1028 ADOPT A LOCAL LAW THAT ALLOWS FOR THE APPLICATION OF A CREDIT OF
POINTS, EQUIVALENT, FOR:29 OR ITS ON A SELECTION TEST

(I) SPOUSE;30 AN ELIGIBLE

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1443

(II) VETERAN;1 AN ELIGIBLE

(III)2 THE SPOUSE OF AN ELIGIBLE VETERAN WHO HAS A
SERVICE–CONNECTED DISABILITY;3 OR

(IV)4 THE SURVIVING SPOUSE OF A DECEASED ELIGIBLE
VETERAN.5

(2) A (1)6 LOCAL LAW ADOPTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION:7

(I)8 MAY ALLOW FOR THE APPLICATION OF A CREDIT OF TWO
POINTS, EQUIVALENT,9 ADDITIONAL OR ITS ON ANY SELECTION TEST FOR A FORMER
WAR;10 PRISONER OF AND

(II) NECESSARY,11 IF SHALL CLARIFY THE APPLICATION OF ANY
§ 1–205 SUBTITLE.12 SPECIAL CREDIT APPLIED UNDER OF THIS

(C) THE13 FOLLOWING APPLICANTS ARE INELIGIBLE FOR A CREDIT UNDER
SUBSECTION:14 THIS

(1) MUNICIPALITY;15 A CURRENT EMPLOYEE OF A COUNTY OR AND

(2)16 AN ELIGIBLE VETERAN WHO IS CONVICTED OF A CRIME AFTER
SERVICE.17 BEING DISCHARGED FROM OR COMPLETING MILITARY

18 12–109.

19 (a) Frederick County may:

20 (2) require a county employee, as a condition of employment, to elect to
[§ 1–205(b)] § 1–206(B)21 receive the payment of wages by debit card or, subject to and (c) of
22 this article, by direct deposit.

23 Article – State Personnel and Pensions

24 7–207.

25 (c) (1) (i) In this subsection the following words have the meanings
26 indicated.

27 (ii) “Eligible spouse” means an individual who is married to a
28 full–time active duty member of any branch of the uniformed services of the United States.

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1443 5

1 (iii) “Eligible veteran” means a veteran of any branch of the
2 uniformed services of the United States who has received an honorable discharge or a
3 certificate of satisfactory completion of service, including the National Guard and the
4 military reserves.

5 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
6 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.