PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1467

L6, M1, M3 EMERGENCY BILL 5lr3457

By: Delegates Howard and ~~Hornberger~~ Behler
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Local Finance – Special Taxing Districts – Anne Arundel County Erosion
3 Prevention Projects and Erosion Control Projects

4 FOR the purpose of requiring interest earnings on money deposited for a certain taxing and
5 assessment district to be credited to that district; specifying that a certain provision
6 of law governing the petition process for the construction of an erosion prevention
7 project or erosion control project in a certain district in Anne Arundel County does
8 not apply to certain planning, permitting, or cost estimate activities; providing that
9 the entity administering a shore erosion control district may, subject to certain
10 requirements, use tax funds for the maintenance, repair, or reconstruction of an
11 existing shore erosion control project; and generally relating to special taxing
12 districts and erosion prevention projects and erosion control projects.

13 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
14 Article – Local Government
15 Section 21–201 through 21–204 ~~and~~ ~~21–207~~
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2013 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
19 Article – Local Government
20 Section 21–205 ~~and,~~ 21–206, and 21–207
21 Annotated Code of Maryland
22 (2013 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1467*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1467

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Local Government

4 21–201.

5 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

6 (b) “District” means a taxing and assessment district.

7 (c) “District council” means the governing body of a county acting as the district
8 council for a district created under this subtitle.

9 (d) “Project” means an erosion prevention project or erosion control project.

10 21–202.

11 This subtitle supplements the provisions of the Natural Resources Article relating to
12 shore erosion control projects.

13 21–203.

14 The purpose of projects constructed under this subtitle is to prevent erosion of land
15 by any body of water in the State.

16 21–204.

17 (a) Each recorded subdivision that abuts a body of water in the State is a district.

18 (b) Each district established under this section shall be named for the subdivision
19 from which the district is created.

20 21–205.

21 (a) The governing body of a county is the district council for each district in the
22 county.

23 (b) A district council shall:

24 (1) keep a separate record of its proceedings for each district; and

25 (2) deposit all money received for each district to the credit of that district.

(1) shall:26 (c) The district council

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1467 3

~~(I)~~1 require the depository of money under subsection (b)(2) of this
deposited;2 section to give the same security for the repayment of money and

~~(II)~~3 pay the same interest on the money as is required for the deposit
4 of county funds.

(2) ANY5 INTEREST EARNINGS ON MONEY DEPOSITED FOR A DISTRICT
DISTRICT.6 SHALL BE CREDITED TO THAT

7 21–206.

(A) (1) THIS TO:8 SECTION DOES NOT APPLY

(I)9 THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMPLETION OF PLANS AND
ANNE10 SPECIFICATIONS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A PROJECT IN A DISTRICT IN
ARUNDEL COUNTY;11

(II)12 THE PERMITTING ACTIVITIES ASSOCIATED WITH THE
ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY;13 PROJECT IN ~~OR~~

(III)14 THE PREPARATION OF A COST ESTIMATE FOR THE PROJECT
ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY;15 IN OR

(IV) ANNE16 THE CONSTRUCTION OF A PROJECT IN A DISTRICT IN
ARUNDEL COUNTY.17

(2) THIS18 SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED AS LIMITING OR
19 RESTRICTING A DISTRICT FROM ACCESSING ANY MONEY KEPT FOR THE BENEFIT OF
(1)20 THE DISTRICT TO PAY FOR AN ACTIVITY IDENTIFIED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION.21

(B)22 The district council may construct a project in a district if requested by a
23 petition signed by at least 75% of the real property owners in the district.

(C) (1) THE24 ENTITY ADMINISTERING A SHORE EROSION CONTROL
MAINTENANCE, REPAIR,25 DISTRICT MAY USE TAX FUNDS FOR THE OR RESTORATION
PETITION.26 OF AN EXISTING PROJECT WITHOUT A

(2) THE27 ENTITY ADMINISTERING A SHORE EROSION CONTROL
28 DISTRICT SHALL CONDUCT A PUBLIC HEARING BEFORE USING TAX FUNDS FOR THE
MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, PROJECT.29 OR RESTORATION OF AN EXISTING

(3) THIS30 SUBSECTION APPLIES TO ANY EXISTING SHORELINE
DISTRICT,31 EROSION CONTROL PROJECT WITHIN THE REGARDLESS OF THE INITIAL
FUNDING.32 SOURCE OF

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1467

1 21–207.

(A) THIS ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY.2 SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO

(B)3 ~~(a)~~ (1) When the plans and specifications for the construction of a
4 project in a district are complete, the district council shall notify each owner of real property
5 in the district:

6 (i) that the plans and specifications for the construction of the
7 project are complete and can be inspected at the office of the governing body of the county;

8 (ii) of the probable cost of the project; and

9 (iii) of the date and place of a hearing on the petition.

10 (2) The notice shall be:

11 (i) mailed to the last known address of each property owner in the
12 district; and

13 (ii) published once each week for 2 successive weeks in a newspaper
14 of general circulation in the county.

(C)15 ~~(b)~~ After holding a hearing, the district council shall decide whether to
16 proceed with the project.

17 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act ~~shall~~ ~~take~~ ~~effect~~ ~~June~~
18 ~~1,~~ ~~2025~~ is an emergency measure, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
19 health or safety, has been passed by a yea and nay vote supported by three–fifths of all the
20 members elected to each of the two Houses of the General Assembly, and shall take effect
21 from the date it is enacted.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.