PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1459

C8 5lr3028
CF SB 861

By: Delegates Buckel, Hinebaugh, and Wivell
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Ways and Means

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Economic Development – Western Maryland Economic Future Investment
3 Board and Senator George C. Edwards Fund – Alterations

4 FOR the purpose of altering the composition of the Western Maryland Economic Future
5 Investment Board; providing that the Executive Director serves as a nonvoting
6 member of the Board, except under a certain circumstance; altering the purpose of
7 the Senator George C. Edwards Fund; ~~extending~~ ~~the~~ ~~fiscal~~ ~~years~~ ~~in~~ ~~which~~ ~~the~~
8 ~~Governor~~ ~~is~~ ~~required~~ ~~to~~ ~~include~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~appropriation~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~annual~~ ~~budget~~ ~~bill~~ ~~to~~
9 ~~the~~ ~~Fund;~~ altering the criteria that the Board must consider when awarding certain
10 grant and loan funding from the Fund; and generally relating to the Western
11 Maryland Economic Future Investment Board and the Senator George C. Edwards
12 Fund.

13 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
14 Article – Economic Development
15 Section 13–737, 13–739, and 13–740
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2024 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
19 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

20 Article – Economic Development

21 13–737.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1459*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1459

1 (a) There is a Western Maryland Economic Future Investment Board.

2 (b) The Board consists of the following members:

[(1)3 one representative from the Department of Commerce, appointed by the
4 Secretary of Commerce, who shall serve as a nonvoting member;

5 (2) one representative of an economic development organization in each
6 member county, appointed by each member county’s respective commissioners, who shall
7 serve as a nonvoting member;

8 (3) one representative from District 1, appointed by the Speaker of the
9 House, in consultation with the District 1 delegation to the Maryland General Assembly;

10 (4) one representative from District 2, appointed by the President of the
11 Senate, in consultation with the District 2 delegation to the Maryland General Assembly;

12 (5) one county commissioner from each member county;

13 (6) one representative from District 1, appointed by the President of the
14 Senate, in consultation with the District 1 delegation to the Maryland General Assembly,
15 who shall serve as a nonvoting member;

16 (7) one representative from District 2, in consultation with the District 2
17 delegation to the Maryland General Assembly, appointed by the Speaker of the House, who
18 shall serve as a nonvoting member;

19 (8) the State Senator representing District 1, who shall serve as an ex
20 officio nonvoting member;

21 (9) the State Senator representing District 2, who shall serve as an ex
22 officio nonvoting member;

23 (10) a member of the House of Delegates representing a subdistrict in
24 District 1, appointed by the Speaker of the House, who shall serve as an ex officio nonvoting
25 member; and

26 (11) a member of the House of Delegates representing a subdistrict in
27 District 2, appointed by the Speaker of the House, who shall serve as an ex officio nonvoting
member]28

(1) DISTRICT 1,29 ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM APPOINTED BY THE
SPEAKER HOUSE, DISTRICT 130 OF THE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE DELEGATION TO
MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY;31 THE

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1459 3

(2) DISTRICT 1,1 ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM APPOINTED BY THE
PRESIDENT SENATE, DISTRICT 12 OF THE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE DELEGATION
MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY;3 TO THE

(3) DISTRICT 2,4 ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM APPOINTED BY THE
SPEAKER HOUSE, DISTRICT 25 OF THE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE DELEGATION TO
MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY;6 THE

(4) DISTRICT 2,7 ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM APPOINTED BY THE
PRESIDENT SENATE, DISTRICT 28 OF THE IN CONSULTATION WITH THE DELEGATION
MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY;9 TO THE AND

(5) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MEMBER,10 THE AS A NONVOTING EXCEPT
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR11 THAT THE MAY VOTE TO BREAK A TIE ON ANY ITEM VOTED
BOARD.12 BY THE

13 (c) The voting members of the Board may elect a chair from among the Board’s
14 members.

15 (d) The Council shall provide staff for the Board.

16 (e) A member of the Board:

17 (1) may not receive compensation as a member of the Board; but

18 (2) is entitled to reimbursement for expenses under the Standard State
19 Travel Regulations, as provided in the State budget.

20 (f) The voting members of the Board shall have final approval authority on:

21 (1) disbursements from the Fund; and

22 (2) projects selected in accordance with § 13–740 of this subtitle.

(G) A MARYLAND GENERAL ASSEMBLY23 MEMBER OF THE MAY NOT SERVE AS
BOARD.24 A MEMBER OF THE

25 13–739.

26 (a) There is a Senator George C. Edwards Fund.

[capital27 (b) The purpose of the Fund is to provide grant or loan funding to
28 infrastructure projects and business development projects that improve the economic
conditions]29 CREATE JOBS AND SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
30 in the region.OPPORTUNITIES

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1459

1 (c) The Council shall administer the Fund.

2 (d) (1) The Fund consists of:

3 (i) appropriations as provided in the State budget;

4 (ii) interest or other income earned on the investment of money in
5 the Fund; and

6 (iii) any other money accepted for the benefit of the Fund.

~~[2026]~~ ~~2031,~~7 (2) In each of fiscal years 2024 through the Governor shall
8 include in the annual operating or capital budget bill an appropriation of at least
9 $10,000,000 to the Fund.

10 (e) Money in the Fund may be used only to:

[to11 (1) award grants and provide loans capital infrastructure projects and
region]12 business development projects to improve the economic conditions in the IN
§ 13–74013 SUBTITLE; andACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

14 (2) pay the costs necessary to administer the Fund, including paying the
15 salary of the Executive Director.

16 (f) (1) The Fund is a special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to reversion
17 under § 7–302 of the State Finance and Procurement Article.

18 (2) The State Treasurer shall hold the Fund separately, and the
19 Comptroller shall account for the Fund.

20 (3) The State Treasurer shall invest the money in the Fund in the same
21 manner as other State money may be invested.

22 (4) Any investment earnings of the Fund shall be credited to the Fund.

23 13–740.

24 (a) A member county or local entity within a member county may submit a
25 proposal for funding under this part.

26 (b) To qualify for funding, a project shall be:

27 (1) a capital infrastructure project that:

28 (i) is linked to economic development in the region, as approved by
29 the Board; and

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1459 5

1 (ii) receives 20% matching funds from the member county where the
2 project is located, another local entity, a private business, or a combination thereof;

3 (2) a business development project that:

4 (i) encourages and promotes downtown neighborhood
5 revitalization, small business tourism, or other areas as approved by the Board; and

6 (ii) receives 10% matching funds from the member county where the
7 project is located, another local entity, a private business, or a combination thereof; or

8 (3) any other project that the Board determines is appropriate to promote
9 economic development in the region.

10 (c) (1) (i) The Board shall develop criteria to review, evaluate, and rate
11 project proposals for funding under this part.

12 (ii) The criteria in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall ensure
13 that the project:

214 1. EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN ITEM OF THIS
SUBPARAGRAPH, 2515 creates or retains jobs;AT LEAST

[businesses] 1016 2. creates or retains AT LEAST JOBS EACH
~~150%~~17 WITH WAGES THAT ~~MEET~~ ~~OR~~ ~~EXCEED~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEDIAN~~ ~~HOUSEHOLD~~ ~~INCOME~~
~~LOCATED,~~18 ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROJECT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~AS~~ ~~DETERMINED~~
~~STATE~~ 120%19 ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MOST~~ ~~RECENT~~ ~~AVAILABLE~~ ~~DATA~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ EXCEED OF THE
STATE20 WAGE;MINIMUM OR

[increases21 3. wages; or

4.] [new revenue]22 creates State or local tax SIGNIFICANT
23 POPULATION GROWTH IN THE COUNTY OR MUNICIPALITY IN WHICH THE PROJECT IS
LOCATED, BOARD24 AS CERTIFIED IN WRITING TO THE BY THE COUNTY
25 COMMISSIONERS FOR THE MEMBER COUNTY OR THE MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT FOR
26 LOCATED.THE MUNICIPALITY IN WHICH THE PROJECT IS

27 (2) (i) The Board shall choose which projects to award grants and loans
28 to based on the criteria developed in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection.

29 (ii) The Board or the Executive Director shall distribute grants and
30 loans to projects based on the decisions made by the Board in accordance with
31 subparagraph (i) of this paragraph.

32 (d) (1) The Board or the Executive Director shall monitor and track the
33 progress of each project that receives funding under this part.

PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1459

1 (2) If the Board determines that sufficient progress is not being made
2 toward achieving the requirements of this section, the Board may reclaim the awarded
3 funds.

4 (e) The funding provided in this section shall be used to supplement and not
5 supplant any funds that would otherwise be provided to the Board or the member counties.

6 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
7 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.