PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1440

D1 5lr2007

By: ~~Delegate~~ ~~R.~~ ~~Lewis~~ Delegates R. Lewis, Arikan, Conaway, Kaufman, Simmons,
Stinnett, Taylor, and Williams
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Judiciary

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted with floor amendments
Read second time: March 1, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Courts – Parental Accommodations

3 FOR the purpose of requiring certain circuit courthouses in the State to maintain on the
4 premises a private lactation room to be used by certain individuals; providing that
5 breast–feeding mothers and certain individuals caring for children under a certain
6 age may be excused from jury service; requiring the Maryland Judiciary to collect
7 and report certain information relating to jury service excusals; and generally
8 relating to excusal from jury service.

9 BY adding to
10 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
11 Section 1–505
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
15 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
16 Section 8–101 and 8–402
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

19 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
20 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1440*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1440

1 Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

1–505.2

(A) THIS3 SECTION APPLIES TO A CIRCUIT COURTHOUSE THAT IS
4 CONSTRUCTED OR UNDERGOES A MAJOR RENOVATION PROJECT ON OR AFTER
OCTOBER 1, 2025.5

(B) A6 CIRCUIT COURTHOUSE SHALL MAINTAIN ON ITS PREMISES A PRIVATE
7 LACTATION ROOM THAT MAY BE USED BY EMPLOYEES OF THE COURT AND MEMBERS
MILK.8 OF THE PUBLIC TO NURSE AND EXPRESS BREAST

(C) THE9 LACTATION ROOM REQUIRED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL
INCLUDE:10

(1) A11 CHAIR WITH A TABLE AND ELECTRICAL OUTLET NEARBY TO
DEVICE;12 ACCOMMODATE PLACEMENT OF A BREAST PUMP

(2) A INSIDE;13 DOOR THAT MAY BE LOCKED FROM THE

(3) A SINK;14 AND

(4) A REFRIGERATOR.15

16 8–101.

17 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(B) “BREAST–FEEDING MOTHER”18 MEANS A MOTHER WHO IS FEEDING HER
MILK,19 CHILD BREAST EITHER DIRECTLY FROM HER BREAST OR BY EXPRESSING AND
BOTTLE–FEEDING CHILD.20 THE

[(b)] (C)21 (1) “Jury commissioner” means an individual who is designated
22 under a jury plan to manage jury selection and service.

23 (2) “Jury commissioner” includes an acting jury commissioner who is
24 designated in accordance with a jury plan.

[(c)] (D)25 “Jury plan” means a plan that the circuit court for a county adopts
26 under this title to govern jury selection and service for the county.

[(d)] (E)27 “Prospective juror” means an individual whose name is selected from a
28 source pool but who has not yet been screened for disqualification, excusal, or exemption.

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1440 3

[(e)] (F)1 “Qualified juror” means an individual who, after selection as a
2 prospective juror, is not disqualified, excused, or exempted.

[(f)] (G)3 “Source pool” means a pool from which the name of each prospective
4 juror is to be selected as provided under a jury plan.

5 8–402.

6 (a) Subject to the requirements of this section, a jury judge or, if a county’s jury
7 plan allows, its jury commissioner may disqualify, excuse, or exempt an individual who is
8 summoned for jury service or reschedule jury service.

9 (b) An individual may be disqualified only on the basis of information provided
10 on a juror questionnaire or during an interview or other competent evidence.

11 (c) (1) To be excused, an individual shall show, on a juror questionnaire,
[extreme]:12 during an interview, or by other competent evidence, that

(I) EXTREME13 inconvenience, public necessity, or undue hardship
excusal;14 requires

(II) THE BREAST–FEEDING MOTHER;15 INDIVIDUAL IS A OR

(III) THE16 INDIVIDUAL HAS LEGAL CUSTODY OF AND IS
~~4~~ 317 PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR A CHILD UNDER THE AGE OF YEARS REQUIRING
18 HOURS.CONTINUOUS CARE BY THE INDIVIDUAL DURING NORMAL COURT

A MAY,19 (2) JURY JUDGE OR JURY COMMISSIONER BUT IS NOT
TO, (1)(II) (III)20 REQUIRED EXCUSE AN INDIVIDUAL UNDER PARAGRAPH OR OF THIS
SUBSECTION.21

(3)22 An individual may be excused:

23 (i) Only for the period that the jury judge or jury commissioner
24 considers necessary; and

25 (ii) Not more than twice unless the jury judge finds that the
26 individual has shown an extraordinary circumstance that requires an additional excuse.

(4)27 ~~(3)~~ When the period set under this subsection expires, a jury
28 commissioner again shall summon the individual for jury service.

(D) (1) ON DECEMBER 31, 2025, DECEMBER 3129 OR BEFORE AND EACH
THEREAFTER, MARYLAND JUDICIARY AND,30 THE SHALL COLLECT IN ACCORDANCE

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1440

§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL1 WITH OF THE REPORT TO THE
ASSEMBLY YEAR:2 THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR THE PRECEDING CALENDAR

(I) THE3 NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS REQUESTING TO BE
(C)(1) SECTION;4 EXCUSED FOR JURY DUTY UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS AND

(II) THE5 NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS GRANTED OR DENIED AN
(C)(1) SECTION.6 EXCUSAL UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

(2) THE (1)7 INFORMATION REPORTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
BY:8 SUBSECTION SHALL BE DISAGGREGATED

(I) JURISDICTION;9

(II) THE10 TYPE OF EXCUSAL REQUESTED UNDER SUBSECTION
(C)(1) SECTION;11 OF THIS AND

(III) WHETHER12 THE EXCUSAL REQUEST WAS GRANTED OR
DENIED.13

14 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
15 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.