PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1464

R4 5lr2539
CF SB 863

By: Delegate Stewart
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 5, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Motor Vehicles – Rental Fleet Vehicles – Registration

3 FOR the purpose of establishing an alternative registration process for rental fleet vehicles;
4 requiring the Motor Vehicle Administration to issue distinctive registration plates
5 for rental vehicles registered under the alternative process; and generally relating
6 to rental fleet vehicle registration.

7 BY adding to
8 Article – Transportation
9 Section 13–424
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Transportation

13–424.15

(A) THE16 OWNER OF A FLEET OF FIVE OR MORE RENTAL VEHICLES MAY
FLEET:17 REGISTER ANY RENTAL VEHICLE IN THE

(1) UNDER SECTION;18 THIS OR

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1464*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1464

(2) UNDER § 13–939.1 TITLE.1 OF THIS

(B) THE ADMINISTRATION:2

(1) SHALL “FLEET VEHICLE”3 ISSUE DISTINCTIVE REGISTRATION
SECTION;4 PLATES FOR ANY RENTAL VEHICLE REGISTERED UNDER THIS AND

(2) MAY ATTACHMENT, DISPLAY,5 NOT REQUIRE THE OR ISSUANCE OF
SECTION.6 A VALIDATION TAB FOR A RENTAL VEHICLE REGISTERED UNDER THIS

(C) TO PRACTICABLE,7 THE EXTENT REGISTRATION UNDER THIS SECTION
8 FOR EACH RENTAL VEHICLE THAT IS PART OF THE SAME FLEET SHALL EXPIRE ON
DATE.9 THE SAME

(D) (1) THE10 REGISTRATION FEE FOR A RENTAL VEHICLE REGISTERED
§ 13–939.1 TITLE.11 UNDER THIS SECTION IS AS DETERMINED UNDER OF THIS

(2) IN FEE,12 ADDITION TO THE ANNUAL REGISTRATION AN OWNER OF
ONE–TIME13 A RENTAL VEHICLE REGISTERED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL PAY A
$8.5014 INITIAL REGISTRATION FEE NOT EXCEEDING WHEN THE NEW REGISTRATION
ISSUED.15 PLATES ARE

16 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
17 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.