START OF PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1466

L6, N1 5lr1838
CF SB 891

By: ~~Delegate~~ ~~Stewart~~ Delegates Stewart, Allen, Behler, Boyce, Ciliberti, Healey,
Holmes, R. Lewis, Otto, and Stein
Introduced and read first time: February 7, 2025
Assigned to: Environment and Transportation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 6, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Land Use and Real Property – Accessory Dwelling Units – Requirements and
3 Prohibitions

4 FOR the purpose of requiring, on or before a certain date, the legislative body of certain
5 counties or municipal corporations to adopt a local law authorizing the development
6 of accessory dwelling units on land ~~zoned~~ ~~for~~ with a single–family ~~residential~~ ~~use~~
7 detached dwelling unit as the primary dwelling unit subject to certain requirements;
8 providing for requirements for ~~approval~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~zoning~~ ~~use~~ ~~permit~~ ~~application,~~ ~~the~~
9 ~~calculation~~ ~~of~~ ~~development~~ ~~impact~~ ~~fees~~ ~~or~~ ~~building~~ ~~excise~~ ~~taxes,~~ the creation of
10 ~~on–~~ ~~and~~ off–street parking spaces, ~~and~~ ~~restrictions~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~ability~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~utility~~ ~~to~~
11 ~~require~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~connection~~ ~~or~~ ~~charge~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~fee,~~ subject to certain criteria;
12 prohibiting a restriction on use in an instrument affecting the transfer or sale of real
13 property or any other interest in real property from imposing or acting to impose
14 certain limitations on the development or use of accessory dwelling units ~~on~~ ~~property~~
15 ~~zoned~~ ~~for~~ ~~single–family~~ ~~residential~~ ~~use;~~ authorizing the governing body of a
16 homeowners association to treat an accessory dwelling unit as a separate lot for
17 purposes of voting and levying assessments; and generally relating to the
18 development and use of accessory dwelling units.

19 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
20 Article – Land Use
21 Section 1–401(a) and (c) and 10–103(a)
22 Annotated Code of Maryland
23 (2012 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1466*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1466

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Land Use
3 Section 1–401(b)(18) through (30) and 10–103(b)(17) through (23)
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2012 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 BY adding to
7 Article – Land Use
8 Section 1–401(b)(18); 4–501 through ~~4–507~~ 4–504 to be under the new subtitle
9 “Subtitle 5. Accessory Dwelling Units”; and 10–103(b)(17)
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2012 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 BY adding to
13 Article – Real Property
14 Section 2–126, 11B–101(a–1), and 11B–111.11
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

17 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
18 Article – Real Property
19 Section 11B–101(a)
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

22 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
23 Article – Real Property
24 Section 11B–117(a)
25 Annotated Code of Maryland
26 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

27 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
28 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

29 Article – Land Use

30 1–401.

31 (a) Except as provided in this section, this division does not apply to charter
32 counties.

33 (b) The following provisions of this division apply to a charter county:

34 (18) TITLE 4, SUBTITLE 5 (ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS);

35 [(18)] (19) § 5–102(d) (Subdivision regulations – Burial sites);
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1466 3

1 [(19)] (20) § 5–104 (Major subdivision – Review);

2 [(20)] (21) Title 7, Subtitle 1 (Development Mechanisms);

3 [(21)] (22) Title 7, Subtitle 2 (Transfer of Development Rights);

4 [(22)] (23) except in Montgomery County or Prince George’s County, Title
5 7, Subtitle 3 (Development Rights and Responsibilities Agreements);

6 [(23)] (24) Title 7, Subtitle 4 (Inclusionary Zoning);

7 [(24)] (25) Title 7, Subtitle 5 (Housing Expansion and Affordability);

8 [(25)] (26) § 8–401 (Conversion of overhead facilities);

9 [(26)] (27) for Baltimore County only, Title 9, Subtitle 3 (Single–County
10 Provisions – Baltimore County);

11 [(27)] (28) for Frederick County only, Title 9, Subtitle 10 (Single–County
12 Provisions – Frederick County);

13 [(28)] (29) for Howard County only, Title 9, Subtitle 13 (Single–County
14 Provisions – Howard County);

15 [(29)] (30) for Talbot County only, Title 9, Subtitle 18 (Single–County
16 Provisions – Talbot County); and

17 [(30)] (31) Title 11, Subtitle 2 (Civil Penalty).

18 (c) This section supersedes any inconsistent provision of Division II of this article.

19 SUBTITLE 5. ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.

20 4–501.

21 (A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
22 INDICATED.

23 (B) (1) “ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT” MEANS A SECONDARY DWELLING
24 UNIT THAT IS:

25 (I) ON THE SAME LOT, PARCEL, OR TRACT AS A PRIMARY
26 SINGLE–FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING UNIT THAT IS CONSTRUCTED:; AND
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1466

1 (II) NOT GREATER THAN 75% OF THE SIZE OF AND
2 SUBORDINATE IN USE TO THE PRIMARY SINGLE–FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING
3 UNIT.

4 (1) ATTACHED TO OR THROUGH THE CONVERSION OF A PORTION OF
5 THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT;

6 (2) ATTACHED TO OR THROUGH THE FULL OR PARTIAL CONVERSION
7 OF AN ACCESSORY STRUCTURE LOCATED ON THE SAME LOT, PARCEL, OR TRACT AS
8 THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT; OR

9 (3) AS A NEW BUILDING, DETACHED FROM THE PRIMARY DWELLING
10 UNIT AND ANY EXISTING ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.

11 (2) “ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT” INCLUDES A STRUCTURE THAT IS:

12 (I) SEPARATE FROM THE PRIMARY SINGLE–FAMILY DETACHED
13 DWELLING UNIT; OR

14 (II) ATTACHED AS AN ADDITION TO THE PRIMARY
15 SINGLE–FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING UNIT.

16 (C) (1) “DWELLING UNIT” MEANS A SINGLE UNIT PROVIDING COMPLETE,
17 INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITIES FOR AT LEAST ONE INDIVIDUAL, INCLUDING, AT A
18 MINIMUM, PERMANENT PROVISIONS FOR SANITATION, COOKING, EATING, AND
19 SLEEPING, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES ROUTINELY ASSOCIATED WITH DAILY LIFE.

20 (2) “DWELLING UNIT” DOES NOT INCLUDE A UNIT IN A MULTIFAMILY
21 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.

22 (D) “UTILITY” MEANS WATER OR SEWER DISPOSAL SERVICES PROVIDED BY:

23 (1) A PRIVATE COMPANY REGULATED UNDER DIVISION I OF THE
24 PUBLIC UTILITIES ARTICLE;

25 (2) THE WASHINGTON SUBURBAN SANITARY COMMISSION
26 REGULATED UNDER DIVISION II OF THE PUBLIC UTILITIES ARTICLE;

27 (3) A SANITARY COMMISSION REGULATED UNDER TITLE 9, SUBTITLE
28 6 OF THE ENVIRONMENT ARTICLE; OR

29 (4) A MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY REGULATED UNDER TITLE 9, SUBTITLE
30 7 OF THE ENVIRONMENT ARTICLE.
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1466 5

1 4–502.

2 THIS SUBTITLE APPLIES ONLY TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACCESSORY
3 DWELLING UNITS ON LAND ZONED FOR WITH A SINGLE–FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USE
4 DETACHED DWELLING UNIT AS THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT.

5 4–503.

6 (A) IT IS THE POLICY OF THE STATE TO PROMOTE AND ENCOURAGE THE
7 CREATION OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS ON LAND ZONED FOR WITH A
8 SINGLE–FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USE DETACHED DWELLING UNIT AS THE PRIMARY
9 DWELLING UNIT IN ORDER TO MEET THE HOUSING NEEDS OF THE CITIZENS OF
10 MARYLAND.

11 (B) (1) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN THIS SUBTITLE AND SUBJECT TO
12 PARAGRAPH (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION, THIS SUBTITLE DOES NOT ALTER OR
13 ABROGATE ANY ZONING POWER OR RELATED AUTHORITY GRANTED TO A LOCAL
14 JURISDICTION UNDER THIS TITLE.

15 (2) LOCAL JURISDICTIONS SHALL ESTABLISH POLICIES THAT
16 FURTHER THE INTENT OF THIS SUBTITLE.

17 4–504.

18 (A) (1) ON OR BEFORE OCTOBER 1, 2026, EACH LEGISLATIVE BODY
19 SHALL ADOPT A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACCESSORY
20 DWELLING UNITS ON LAND ZONED FOR SINGLE–FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USE IN
21 ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SECTION.

22 (2) A LEGISLATIVE BODY MAY ADOPT A LOCAL LAW THAT:

23 (I) ESTABLISHES STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
24 SAFETY; AND

25 (II) PROHIBITS THE FULL OR PARTIAL CONVERSION OF AN
26 ACCESSORY STRUCTURE AS AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT IF THE ONLY
27 VEHICULAR ACCESS TO THE ACCESSORY STRUCTURE IS FROM AN ALLEY.

28 (B) A LOCAL LAW ADOPTED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL APPLY TO ALL
29 LAND IN THE LOCAL JURISDICTION ZONED FOR SINGLE–FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USE,
30 PROVIDED THAT:
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 HOUSE BILL 1466

1 (1) THE PARTY DEVELOPING THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT OWNS
2 AND HAS THE EXCLUSIVE RIGHT TO USE THE LOT, PARCEL, OR TRACT ON WHICH THE
3 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT IS TO BE DEVELOPED; AND

4 (2) THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW DWELLING UNITS ON THE LOT,
5 TRACT, OR PARCEL IS NOT OTHERWISE PROHIBITED DUE TO:

6 (I) LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABLE SAFE DRINKING WATER;

7 (II) THE EXISTENCE OF PUBLIC HEALTH RISKS DUE TO
8 LIMITATIONS ON SEWAGE DISPOSAL; OR

9 (III) RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FIRES, FLOODS, OR LANDSLIDES
10 PROVIDE FOR CONSTRUCTION OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS THAT MEET PUBLIC
11 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELFARE STANDARDS, INCLUDING RELEVANT BUILDING
12 CODES AND ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES PROVISIONS.

13 (C) A LOCAL LAW ADOPTED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL:

14 (1) REQUIRE THAT THE TOTAL SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE ACCESSORY
15 DWELLING UNIT BE LESS THAN THE TOTAL SQUARE FOOTAGE OF THE PRIMARY
16 DWELLING UNIT;

17 (2) REQUIRE THAT THE FINAL DESIGN FOR THE ACCESSORY
18 DWELLING UNIT SATISFY ALL RELEVANT BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS;

19 (3) AUTHORIZE CONSTRUCTION OF AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
20 BEFORE OR DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT, UNLESS
21 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT WOULD RESULT IN THE
22 NEED FOR A VARIANCE FROM THE ZONING LAW OF THE LOCAL JURISDICTION IN
23 ORDER TO CONSTRUCT THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT;

24 (4) EXCLUDE THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
25 FROM THE CALCULATION OF DENSITY AND THE APPLICATION OF ANY MEASURES
26 LIMITING RESIDENTIAL GROWTH THAT PERTAIN TO THE LOT, PARCEL, OR TRACT
27 PROPOSED FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT; AND

28 (5) SET CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF A ZONING USE PERMIT FOR
29 AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT UNDER § 4–505 OF THIS SUBTITLE THAT ADDRESS
30 OBJECTIVE AND MEASURABLE REQUIREMENTS, INCLUDING:

31 (I) MASSING;

32 (II) LOCATIONS OF ENTRANCES;
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
HOUSE BILL 1466 7

1 (III) SQUARE FOOTAGE; AND

2 (IV) SUBJECT TO § 4–507 OF THIS SUBTITLE, CONNECTIONS TO A
3 UTILITY.

4 (D) A LOCAL LAW ADOPTED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY NOT:

5 (1) REQUIRE, AS A CONDITION TO DEVELOPING AN ACCESSORY
6 DWELLING UNIT, THAT THE LOT, PARCEL, OR TRACT EXCEED THE MINIMUM SIZE
7 REQUIRED FOR A PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT IN THE ZONE OR DISTRICT;

8 (2) ESTABLISH SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FROM THE SIDE AND REAR
9 LOT LINES FOR AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT THAT IS CONVERTED FROM AN
10 EXISTING ACCESSORY STRUCTURE IF:

11 (I) THE LOCATION OF THE PROPOSED ACCESSORY DWELLING
12 UNIT IS IDENTICAL TO THE EXISTING ACCESSORY STRUCTURE; AND

13 (II) THE DIMENSIONS OF THE PROPOSED ACCESSORY
14 DWELLING UNIT ARE IDENTICAL TO OR SMALLER THAN THE EXISTING ACCESSORY
15 STRUCTURE;

16 (3) FOR AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT OTHER THAN A UNIT THAT
17 MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF ITEM (2) OF THIS SUBSECTION, ESTABLISH SETBACK
18 REQUIREMENTS THAT EXCEED 4 FEET THE EXISTING ACCESSORY STRUCTURE
19 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS FROM THE SIDE AND REAR LOT LINES;

20 (4) EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION (E) OF THIS SECTION,
21 REQUIRE:

22 (I) IF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
23 IS LOCATED WITHIN A 0.75–MILE RADIUS OF A MASS TRANSIT FACILITY, THE
24 CREATION OF NEW OFF–STREET PARKING AS A CONDITION TO DEVELOPING THE
25 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT; AND

26 (II) IF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
27 IS LOCATED OUTSIDE A 0.75–MILE RADIUS OF A MASS TRANSIT FACILITY, THE
28 CREATION OF MORE THAN ONE OFF–STREET PARKING SPACE; OR

29 (5) SET CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF A ZONING USE PERMIT FOR
30 AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT UNDER § 4–505 OF THIS SUBTITLE BASED ON
31 SUBJECTIVE CRITERIA, INCLUDING:
END OF PAGE 7

START OF PAGE 8
8 HOUSE BILL 1466

1 (I) NEIGHBORHOOD COMPATIBILITY, SUCH AS DESIGN OR
2 AESTHETICS; OR

3 (II) ADVERSE IMPACTS.

4 (E) (1) (I) SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION (D)(4) OF THIS SECTION, A A
5 LOCAL LAW ADOPTED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY ESTABLISH ADDITIONAL
6 OFF–STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS THAT CONSIDER:

7 1. THE COST TO CONSTRUCT OFF–STREET PARKING
8 SPACES;

9 2. WHETHER SUFFICIENT CURB AREA EXISTS ALONG
10 THE FRONT LINE OF THE PROPERTY TO ACCOMMODATE ON–STREET PARKING;

11 3. THE INCREASE IN IMPERVIOUS SURFACE DUE TO THE
12 CREATION OF NEW OFF–STREET PARKING AND THE RELATION TO ANY APPLICABLE
13 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLANS; AND

14 4. VARIABILITY DUE TO THE SIZE OF THE LOT, PARCEL,
15 OR TRACT ON WHICH THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT OR PRIMARY DWELLING IS
16 LOCATED.

17 (II) A LOCAL LAW ADOPTED UNDER THIS PARAGRAPH SHALL
18 PROVIDE FOR A WAIVER PROCESS FROM THE PARKING REQUIREMENTS.

19 (2) BEFORE ADOPTING A LOCAL LAW UNDER PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS
20 SUBSECTION, A LEGISLATIVE BODY SHALL COMPLETE A PARKING STUDY TO
21 DETERMINE THE APPLICABLE NEEDS AND RESTRICTIONS IN THE JURISDICTION.

22 4–505.

23 (A) A LOCAL JURISDICTION SHALL APPROVE OR DENY A COMPLETE
24 APPLICATION FOR A ZONING USE PERMIT FOR AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
25 WITHIN 90 DAYS AFTER RECEIPT BY THE AGENCY RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING
26 ZONING DECISIONS.

27 (B) APPROVAL OF A COMPLETE APPLICATION UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL
28 BE PERFORMED IN A MINISTERIAL MANNER.

29 (C) IF AN APPLICANT REQUESTS A DELAY IN THE REVIEW OF AN
30 APPLICATION, THE 90–DAY REVIEW PERIOD REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF
31 THIS SECTION SHALL BE TOLLED FOR THE DURATION OF THE DELAY.
END OF PAGE 8

START OF PAGE 9
HOUSE BILL 1466 9

1 (D) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO ALTER THE APPELLATE OR
2 JUDICIAL REVIEW PROCESSES FOR A ZONING USE PERMIT APPLICATION FOR AN
3 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.

4 4–506.

5 (A) A LOCAL JURISDICTION MAY NOT CHARGE A DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
6 FEE OR A BUILDING EXCISE TAX ON AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT WITH A TOTAL
7 SQUARE FOOTAGE OF LESS THAN 750 SQUARE FEET.

8 (B) A LOCAL JURISDICTION MAY CHARGE A DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE OR
9 A BUILDING EXCISE TAX FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
10 THAT IS AT LEAST 750 SQUARE FEET IF THE IMPACT FEE OR BUILDING EXCISE TAX
11 IS:

12 (1) ASSESSED PROPORTIONATELY IN RELATION TO THE SQUARE
13 FOOTAGE OF THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT; AND

14 (2) SET AT AN AMOUNT THAT DOES NOT CREATE A DE FACTO
15 PROHIBITION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.

16 (C) A LOCAL JURISDICTION MAY ESTABLISH A PROCESS BY WHICH AN
17 IMPACT FEE OR BUILDING EXCISE TAX CHARGED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY BE
18 WAIVED OR REDUCED.

19 4–507.

20 (A) (1) THIS SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO AN ACCESSORY DWELLING
21 UNIT THAT IS DEVELOPED IN CONJUNCTION WITH A NEW OR SUBSTANTIALLY
22 RENOVATED PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT.

23 (2) SUBJECT TO PARAGRAPH (3) OF THIS SUBSECTION, A UTILITY
24 MAY NOT REQUIRE THE USE OF A SEPARATE CONNECTION BETWEEN AN ACCESSORY
25 DWELLING UNIT AND THE WATER OR SEWER MAIN IF THE EXISTING CONNECTION
26 BETWEEN THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT AND THE WATER OR SEWER MAIN IS
27 DETERMINED TO BE SUFFICIENT TO SUPPORT THE ADDITION OF THE ACCESSORY
28 DWELLING UNIT.

29 (3) A LOCAL JURISDICTION MAY ESTABLISH CRITERIA UNDER WHICH
30 A UTILITY IS AUTHORIZED TO REQUIRE THE USE OF A SEPARATE CONNECTION
31 BETWEEN AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AND THE WATER OR SEWER MAIN.

32 (B) IF AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT IS INTEGRATED INTO THE EXISTING
33 CONNECTION BETWEEN THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT AND THE WATER OR SEWER
END OF PAGE 9

START OF PAGE 10
10 HOUSE BILL 1466

1 MAIN, A UTILITY MAY NOT CHARGE A CONNECTION FEE ASSOCIATED WITH THE
2 INTEGRATION OF THE ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.

3 (C) A PERSON DEVELOPING AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT MAY ELECT TO
4 USE A METER THAT IS SHARED WITH THE PRIMARY DWELLING UNIT TO TRACK THE
5 DELIVERY OF WATER FROM A UTILITY.

6 10–103.

7 (a) Except as provided in this section, this division does not apply to Baltimore
8 City.

9 (b) The following provisions of this division apply to Baltimore City:

10 (17) TITLE 4, SUBTITLE 5 (ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS);

11 [(17)] (18) § 5–102(d) (Subdivision regulations – Burial sites);

12 [(18)] (19) Title 7, Subtitle 1 (Development Mechanisms);

13 [(19)] (20) Title 7, Subtitle 2 (Transfer of Development Rights);

14 [(20)] (21) Title 7, Subtitle 3 (Development Rights and Responsibilities
15 Agreements);

16 [(21)] (22) Title 7, Subtitle 4 (Inclusionary Zoning);

17 [(22)] (23) Title 7, Subtitle 5 (Housing Expansion and Affordability); and

18 [(23)] (24) Title 11, Subtitle 2 (Civil Penalty).

19 Article – Real Property

20 2–126.

21 (A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
22 INDICATED.

23 (2) “ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN §
24 4–501 OF THE LAND USE ARTICLE.

25 (3) “RESTRICTION ON USE” INCLUDES ANY COVENANT,
26 RESTRICTION, OR CONDITION CONTAINED IN:

27 (I) A DEED;
END OF PAGE 10

START OF PAGE 11
HOUSE BILL 1466 11

1 (II) A DECLARATION;

2 (III) A CONTRACT;

3 (IV) THE BYLAWS OR RULES OF A HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION;

4 (V) A SECURITY INSTRUMENT; OR

5 (VI) ANY OTHER INSTRUMENT AFFECTING:

6 1. THE TRANSFER OR SALE OF REAL PROPERTY; OR

7 2. ANY OTHER INTEREST IN REAL PROPERTY.

8 (B) (1) IF EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH (2)(II) OF THIS
9 SUBSECTION, IF A PROPERTY OWNER HAS THE EXCLUSIVE RIGHT TO USE THE
10 PROPERTY AND ABIDES BY ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS, A
11 RESTRICTION ON USE REGARDING LAND USE MAY NOT IMPOSE OR ACT TO IMPOSE
12 AN UNREASONABLE LIMITATION ON THE ABILITY OF THE PROPERTY OWNER TO
13 DEVELOP OR OFFER FOR RENT AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT ON A PROPERTY
14 ZONED FOR SINGLE–FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USE.

15 (2) FOR THE PURPOSE OF PARAGRAPH (1) OF THIS SUBSECTION, AN
16 UNREASONABLE LIMITATION:

17 (I) INCLUDES INCLUDES A LIMITATION THAT:

18 (I) SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASES THE COST OF DEVELOPING AN
19 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT; OR

20 (II) PROHIBITS PROHIBITS, EITHER EXPLICITLY OR BY EFFECT
21 OF THE RESTRICTIONS, THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT; AND

22 (II) DOES NOT INCLUDE A LIMITATION ON THE SHORT–TERM
23 RENTAL OF AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.

24 (C) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A RESTRICTION ON USE ON HISTORIC
25 PROPERTY THAT IS LISTED IN OR DETERMINED BY THE DIRECTOR OF THE
26 MARYLAND HISTORICAL TRUST TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR INCLUSION IN THE MARYLAND
27 REGISTER OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES.

28 11B–101.
END OF PAGE 11

START OF PAGE 12
12 HOUSE BILL 1466

1 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated, unless the
2 context requires otherwise.

3 (A–1) “ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT” HAS THE MEANING STATED IN § 4–501 OF
4 THE LAND USE ARTICLE.

5 11B–111.11.

6 NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF LAW OR ANY PROVISION IN
7 THE DECLARATION, BYLAWS, RULES, DEEDS, AGREEMENTS, OR RECORDED
8 COVENANTS OR RESTRICTIONS OF A HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, THE GOVERNING
9 BODY OF A HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION HAS THE AUTHORITY TO TREAT AN
10 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AS A SEPARATE LOT FOR PURPOSES OF VOTING ON A
11 HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION MATTER.

12 11B–117.

13 (a) (1) As provided in the declaration, a lot owner shall be liable for all
14 homeowners association assessments and charges that come due during the time that the
15 lot owner owns the lot.

16 (2) [The] NOTWITHSTANDING ANY PROVISION OF THE DECLARATION,
17 ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION, OR BYLAWS RESTRICTING ASSESSMENT INCREASES,
18 CAPPING THE ASSESSMENT THAT MAY BE LEVIED IN A FISCAL YEAR, OR LIMITING
19 ASSESSMENTS TO EACH LOT, THE governing body of a homeowners association has the
20 authority to [increase]:

21 (I) INCREASE an assessment levied to cover the reserve funding
22 amount required under § 11B–112.3 of this title[, notwithstanding any provision of the
23 declaration, articles of incorporation, or bylaws restricting assessment increases or capping
24 the assessment that may be levied in a fiscal year]; AND

25 (II) TREAT AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AS A SEPARATE LOT
26 FOR PURPOSES OF LEVYING ASSESSMENTS.

27 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
28 October 1, 2025.
END OF PAGE 12