PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1524

F3 5lr3624
CF SB 1032

By: Wicomico County Delegation
Introduced and read first time: February 20, 2025
Assigned to: Rules and Executive Nominations
Re–referred to: Ways and Means, February 25, 2025

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 5, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Wicomico County Board of Education – Election of Members, Student Member,
3 and Compensation

4 FOR the purpose of altering, beginning with a certain election, the districts from which
5 certain members of the Wicomico County Board of Education are elected; adding ~~a~~
6 at least one student member to the county board; providing that the members of the
7 county board are entitled to certain compensation and reimbursement; and generally
8 relating to the Wicomico County Board of Education.

9 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
10 Article – Education
11 Section 3–13A–01, 3–13A–02, 3–13A–03(a)(2), 3–13A–04, 3–13A–06, and 4–107(e)(7)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
15 Article – Education
16 Section 3–13A–03(a)(1)
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

19 BY adding to
20 Article – Education
21 Section 3–13A–07 and 3–13A–08

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1524*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1524

1 Annotated Code of Maryland
2 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

3 BY repealing
4 Article – Education
5 Section 4–107(e)(6)
6 Annotated Code of Maryland
7 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

8 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
9 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

10 Article – Education

11 3–13A–01.

[seven]:12 (a) (1) The Wicomico County Board consists of

(I) SEVEN members;13 nonpartisan elected voting AND

(II) ~~ONE~~ AT14 MEMBER.LEAST ONE STUDENT

[The] BEGINNING 2026,15 (2) WITH THE GENERAL ELECTION IN THE
[as16 seven members shall be elected follows:ELECTED

member] [five]17 (i) One from each of the councilmanicSEVEN
district[;18 districts in the county, elected by the voters of that and

county].19 (ii) Two members at large, elected by the voters of the

20 (b) (1) A candidate who becomes an elected member of the county board must
21 be a resident and registered voter of Wicomico County.

22 (2) (i) An elected member who no longer resides in Wicomico County
23 may not continue as a member of the board.

24 (ii) A member elected from a councilmanic district who no longer
25 resides in that district may not continue as a member of the board.

26 (3) If the boundary line of a Wicomico County councilmanic district is
27 changed, the term of an incumbent member of the county board who no longerELECTED
28 resides in that councilmanic district because of the change is not affected during this term.

29 3–13A–02.

30 (a) The seven members of the Wicomico County Board shall be elected:ELECTED

PAGE 3
HOUSE BILL 1524 3

1 (1) At the general election in 2018 and at the general election every 4 years
2 thereafter; and

3 (2) In accordance with § 3–13A–01 of this subtitle and Title 8, Subtitle 8 of
4 the Election Law Article.

5 (b) (1) The terms of the members are as provided in this subsection.ELECTED

6 (2) Each term of office begins on the first Monday in December after the
7 election of a member and until a successor is elected and qualifies.

8 (3) The term of office of each member is 4 years.

9 3–13A–03.

10 (a) (1) There is a Wicomico County School Board Nominating Commission.

11 (2) The purpose of the Commission is to select nominees to recommend to
12 the Wicomico County Council as qualified candidates for appointment to fill a vacancy OF
13 on the Wicomico County Board.AN ELECTED MEMBER

14 3–13A–04.

15 (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the Wicomico County
16 Council shall appoint an individual to fill a vacancy on theOF AN ELECTED MEMBER
17 county board in accordance with § 3–13A–03 of this subtitle.

[a]18 (b) (1) If a vacancy for member occurs before the date that isAN ELECTED
19 30 days before the date for filing a certificate of candidacy for the primary election in the
20 presidential election year, the individual appointed under subsection (a) of this section shall
21 serve only until a successor is elected by the voters at the next general election.

22 (2) Candidates for the vacated office may be nominated at a primary
23 election in the same manner as for any other position on the county board.

24 3–13A–06.

25 At the first meeting of the county board in December of each year, the county board
26 shall elect a chair and vice chair from among the members.ELECTED

3–13A–07.27

(A) ~~THE~~ A28 STUDENT MEMBER OF THE COUNTY BOARD SHALL BE SELECTED
BOARD.29 IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROCEDURES ESTABLISHED BY THE COUNTY

PAGE 4
4 HOUSE BILL 1524

(B) (1) ~~THE~~ EACH SHALL:1 STUDENT MEMBER

(I) BE 11TH 12TH2 AN OR GRADE STUDENT IN GOOD STANDING
WICOMICO COUNTY SYSTEM;3 AND REGULARLY ENROLLED IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOL

(II) SERVE 1 JULY 14 FOR YEAR BEGINNING AFTER THE
MEMBER;5 SELECTION OF THE

(III) BE MEMBER;6 A NONVOTING AND

(IV) ADVISE7 THE COUNTY BOARD ON THE THOUGHTS AND
WICOMICO COUNTY SCHOOLS.8 FEELINGS OF STUDENTS IN THE PUBLIC

(2) UNLESS9 INVITED TO ATTEND BY AN AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF A
BOARD,10 MAJORITY OF THE ELECTED MEMBERS OF THE COUNTY ~~THE~~ A STUDENT
BOARD.11 MEMBER MAY NOT ATTEND A CLOSED SESSION OF THE COUNTY

3–13A–08.12

(A) (1) THE13 CHAIR OF THE COUNTY BOARD IS ENTITLED TO RECEIVE
OF:14 ANNUALLY AS COMPENSATION THE GREATER

(I) $4,000;15 OR

(II) A WICOMICO COUNTY COUNCIL.16 SALARY SET BY THE

(2) THE17 VICE CHAIR OF THE COUNTY BOARD AND THE OTHER
18 ELECTED MEMBERS OF THE COUNTY BOARD ARE ENTITLED TO RECEIVE ANNUALLY
OF:19 AS COMPENSATION THE GREATER

(I) $3,700;20 OR

(II) A WICOMICO COUNTY COUNCIL.21 SALARY SET BY THE

(B) AFTER22 SUBMITTING VOUCHERS UNDER THE RULES AND REGULATIONS
BOARD,23 ADOPTED BY THE COUNTY THE ELECTED MEMBERS ARE ENTITLED TO
24 RECEIVE REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES AS PROVIDED IN
BOARD’S BUDGET.25 THE COUNTY

(C) (1) ON VOUCHERS,26 THE SUBMISSION OF EXPENSE ~~THE~~ A STUDENT
27 MEMBER IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES
BOARD.28 INCURRED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES FOR THE COUNTY

PAGE 5
HOUSE BILL 1524 5

(2) A1 STUDENT MEMBER MAY BE GRANTED A SCHOLARSHIP AS
BOARD.2 AUTHORIZED BY THE COUNTY

~~(2)~~ (3) ~~THE~~ A3 STUDENT MEMBER IS NOT ENTITLED TO ANY
~~(1)~~4 COMPENSATION OR PAYMENT OTHER THAN THAT SPECIFIED UNDER ~~PARAGRAPH~~
(1) (2) MEMBER’S5 PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS SUBSECTION FOR THE STUDENT WORK
BOARD.6 AS ~~THE~~ A STUDENT MEMBER OF THE COUNTY

7 4–107.

[(6)8 (e) Each member of the Wicomico County Board shall receive the following
9 amounts annually as compensation:

10 (i) Member …………………………………………………… $3,700; and

$4,000.]11 (ii) Chairman ……………………………………………………..

[(7)] (6)12 Each member of the Worcester County Board shall receive an
13 amount annually for traveling and other expenses as determined by the County
14 Commissioners, but in the amount of at least:

15 (i) Member …………………………………………………… $2,000; and

16 (ii) Chairman ……………………………………………………… $2,400.

17 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
18 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.