PAGE 1
HOUSE BILL 1543

C7 5lr3649
CF SB 1000

By: Delegate Stein
Introduced and read first time: February 25, 2025
Assigned to: Rules and Executive Nominations
Re–referred to: Ways and Means, February 27, 2025

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
House action: Adopted
Read second time: March 4, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Gaming – Sports Wagering Facilities – Request for Relocation

3 FOR the purpose of authorizing certain sports wagering facility licensees to submit a
4 written request to the State Lottery and Gaming Control Commission to relocate the
5 sports wagering facility, subject to certain limitations; and generally relating to
6 sports wagering facilities.

7 BY adding to
8 Article – State Government
9 Section 9–1E–07(j)
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – State Government

15 9–1E–07.

(J) (1) A16 SPORTS WAGERING FACILITY LICENSEE ISSUED A LICENSE
§ 9–1E–06(A)(2)(II)17 UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE MAY SUBMIT A WRITTEN REQUEST TO
COMMISSION CLASS B FACILITY.18 THE TO RELOCATE A SPORTS WAGERING

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *hb1543*

PAGE 2
2 HOUSE BILL 1543

(2) THE COMMISSION1 MAY GRANT A REQUEST SUBMITTED UNDER
(1) IF:2 PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION ONLY

(I)3 THE SPORTS WAGERING FACILITY LICENSEE WAS
CLASS B4 ORIGINALLY ISSUED A SPORTS WAGERING FACILITY LICENSE ON OR
SEPTEMBER 30, 2023;5 BEFORE AND

(II) FACILITY:6 THE NEW LOCATION FOR THE SPORTS WAGERING

1. COUNTY;7 IS WITHIN THE SAME ~~AND~~

2.8 COMPLIES WITH THE LOCATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 9–1E–06 SUBTITLE;9 UNDER OF THIS AND

3. § 9–1E–15(Q) SUBTITLE,10 SUBJECT TO OF THIS IS
SPORTS WAGERING APPLICATION REVIEW COMMISSION.11 APPROVED BY THE

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
13 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.