PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 93

G1 5lr1433
SB 824/24 – EEE (PRE–FILED) CF HB 201

By: Senator Kramer
Requested: October 29, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Education, Energy, and the Environment

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Election Law – Absentee ~~Ballot~~ ~~Application~~ ~~–~~ ~~Sending~~ ~~to~~ ~~Eligible~~ ~~Voters~~ ~~Before~~
3 ~~Primary~~ ~~Elections~~ Ballots – Notice to Request Application

4 FOR the purpose of requiring ~~each~~ the local board of elections to send ~~the~~ a certain notice
5 regarding a request for an absentee ballot application approved by the State Board
6 of Elections ~~to~~ ~~each~~ ~~eligible~~ ~~voter~~ ~~at~~ ~~least~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~number~~ ~~of~~ ~~days~~ ~~before~~ ~~each~~
7 ~~statewide~~ ~~primary~~ ~~election,~~ ~~unless~~ ~~the~~ ~~voter~~ ~~has~~ ~~permanent~~ ~~absentee~~ ~~ballot~~ ~~status;~~
8 with certain mailings to voters and eligible voters for a certain purpose, except under
9 certain circumstances; and generally relating to absentee ballot applications.

10 BY adding to
11 Article – Election Law
12 Section 9–305(e)
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

15 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
16 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

17 Article – Election Law

18 9–305.

(E) (1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,19 AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0093*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 93

~~60~~ ~~ELECTION,~~1 ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~DAYS~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~STATEWIDE~~ ~~PRIMARY~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~LOCAL~~ THE
2 LOCAL BOARD SHALL SEND ~~THE~~ A WRITTEN NOTICE REGARDING A REQUEST FOR A
STATE–APPROVED3 ABSENTEE BALLOT APPLICATION WITH A SPECIMEN BALLOT
§ 8–1024 MAILED UNDER OF THIS ARTICLE AND ANY OTHER MAILING TO ~~EACH~~
5 ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~VOTER~~ VOTERS OR ELIGIBLE VOTERS TO FURTHER AWARENESS OF THE
MAIL–IN VOTING.6 OPTION OF

(2) A7 LOCAL BOARD IS NOT REQUIRED TO SEND THE
~~STATE–APPROVED~~8 ~~ABSENTEE~~ ~~BALLOT~~ ~~APPLICATION~~ ~~TO~~ NOTICE REQUIRED UNDER
(1) SUBSECTION:9 PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(I) VOTER:10 TO A

1.11 WHO HAS PERMANENT ABSENTEE BALLOT STATUS
§ 9–311.1 SUBTITLE;12 UNDER OF THIS OR

2. ELECTION;13 MORE THAN ONCE PER OR

(II) VOTE–BY–MAIL ELECTION.14 FOR A

15 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
16 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.