PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 114

C3 5lr0636
(PRE–FILED)

By: Senators Simonaire and M. Jackson
Requested: June 16, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Finance
Reassigned: Education, Energy, and the Environment and Finance, January 13, 2025

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Maryland Department of Labor – Licenses – Notation of Veteran Status and
3 Eligibility for Benefits

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing units in the Maryland Department of Labor to establish a
5 certain process to include a notation of veteran status on an occupational license ~~and~~
6 ~~assist~~ ~~in~~ ~~determining~~ ~~eligibility~~ ~~for~~ ~~State~~ ~~and~~ ~~federal~~ ~~benefits;~~ and generally relating
7 to occupational and professional licenses and veterans.

8 BY renumbering
9 Article – Business Regulation
10 Section 2.5–103 through 2.5–108
11 to be Section 2.5–104 through 2.5–109, respectively
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2024 Replacement Volume)

14 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
15 Article – Business Regulation
16 Section 2.5–101(a), (b), (e), and (f)
17 Annotated Code of Maryland
18 (2024 Replacement Volume)

19 BY adding to
20 Article – Business Regulation

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0114*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 114

1 Section 2.5–103
2 Annotated Code of Maryland
3 (2024 Replacement Volume)

4 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
5 That Section(s) 2.5–103 through 2.5–108 of Article – Business Regulation of the Annotated
6 Code of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 2.5–104 through 2.5–109, respectively.

7 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
8 as follows:

9 Article – Business Regulation

10 2.5–101.

11 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

12 (b) (1) “License” means any grant of authority to an individual to practice an
13 occupation or profession.

14 (2) “License” includes a certificate, permit, or registration.

15 (e) “Unit” means a unit in the Department that is authorized to issue a license.

16 (f) “Veteran” means a former service member who was discharged from active
17 duty under circumstances other than dishonorable before the date on which the application
18 for a license is submitted.

2.5–103.19

(A) THIS20 SECTION APPLIES ONLY TO A UNIT THAT ESTABLISHES A PROCESS
(B) SECTION.21 UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

(B) EACH22 UNIT MAY ESTABLISH A PROCESS TO INCLUDE A NOTATION
23 INDICATING VETERAN STATUS ON A LICENSE ~~AND~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ASSIST~~ ~~IN~~ ~~DETERMINING~~
~~STATE~~ ~~VETERANS’~~ ~~BENEFITS.~~24 ~~ELIGIBILITY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FEDERAL~~

(C) (1) AN25 APPLICATION FOR AN INITIAL LICENSE OR RENEWAL LICENSE
TO:26 ISSUED BY A UNIT SHALL ALLOW THE APPLICANT

(I) APPLICANT’S27 REQUEST THAT A NOTATION OF THE VETERAN
LICENSE;28 STATUS BE INCLUDED ON THE AND

(II)29 PROVIDE AFFIRMATIVE CONSENT TO BEING CONTACTED BY
EXECUTIVE BRANCH APPLICANT’S30 APPROPRIATE AGENCIES REGARDING THE
STATE VETERANS’ BENEFITS.31 ELIGIBILITY FOR OR FEDERAL

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 114 3

(2) AN1 APPLICANT FOR AN INITIAL LICENSE OR A RENEWAL LICENSE
2 SHALL SUBMIT TO THE UNIT ONE OF THE FOLLOWING AS CERTIFICATION OF
STATUS:3 VETERAN

(I)4 A CERTIFICATION OF VETERAN STATUS OBTAINED FROM
DEPARTMENT VETERANS MILITARY FAMILIES §5 THE OF AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
9–905 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE;6 OF THE

(II) CERTIFICATE RELEASE DISCHARGE7 A FEDERAL OF OR
ACTIVE DUTY (DD FORM 214);8 FROM OR

(III) UNIT.9 ANY OTHER DOCUMENTATION ACCEPTABLE TO THE

(D) IF10 AN APPLICANT FOR AN INITIAL LICENSE OR A RENEWAL LICENSE
(C)(2)11 SUBMITS THE DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION,12 THE UNIT SHALL INCLUDE A NOTATION OF VETERAN STATUS ON THE
LICENSE.13

(E) IN §§ 4–304 4–325 GENERAL14 ACCORDANCE WITH THROUGH OF THE
PROVISIONS ARTICLE LAW,15 AND ANY OTHER APPLICABLE AND ON REQUEST BY AN
EXECUTIVE BRANCH AGENCY,16 A UNIT SHALL ELECTRONICALLY TRANSMIT TO THE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH17 AGENCY APPROPRIATE INFORMATION ABOUT EACH
18 APPLICANT FOR AN INITIAL LICENSE OR A RENEWAL LICENSE WHO CONSENTS TO
(C)(1) SECTION.19 BEING CONTACTED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

20 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
21 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.