PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 168

M3 5lr1405
(PRE–FILED)

By: Senator Simonaire
Requested: October 27, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Education, Energy, and the Environment

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 ~~Environmental~~ ~~Justice~~ ~~in~~ ~~Confined~~ ~~Aquatic~~ ~~Disposal~~ ~~Act~~
3 Confined Aquatic Disposal Cells – Construction – Moratorium

4 FOR the purpose of prohibiting the Department of the Environment from processing or
5 making any recommendation on a certain application submitted for the purpose of
6 constructing a confined aquatic disposal cell ~~within~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~distance~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~residential~~
7 ~~overburdened~~ ~~community~~ during a certain time period; prohibiting the Board of
8 Public Works from approving a certain application submitted for the purpose of
9 constructing a confined aquatic disposal cell ~~within~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~distance~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~residential~~
10 ~~overburdened~~ ~~community~~ during a certain time period; and generally relating to
11 confined aquatic disposal cells.

12 ~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~without~~ ~~amendments,~~
13 ~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Environment~~
14 ~~Section~~ ~~1–701(a)(7)~~
15 ~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
16 ~~(2013~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2024~~ ~~Supplement)~~

17 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
18 Article – Environment
19 Section 5–1101(a) and 5–1102
20 Annotated Code of Maryland
21 (2013 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0168*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 168

1 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
2 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

3 Article – Environment

4 ~~1–701.~~

5 ~~(a)~~ ~~(7)~~ ~~“Overburdened~~ ~~community”~~ ~~means~~ ~~any~~ ~~census~~ ~~tract~~ ~~for~~ ~~which~~ ~~three~~ ~~or~~
6 ~~more~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~environmental~~ ~~health~~ ~~indicators~~ ~~are~~ ~~above~~ ~~the~~ ~~75th~~ ~~percentile~~
7 ~~statewide:~~

8 ~~(i)~~ ~~Particulate~~ ~~matter~~ ~~(PM)~~ ~~2.5;~~

9 ~~(ii)~~ ~~Ozone;~~

10 ~~(iii)~~ ~~National~~ ~~Air~~ ~~Toxics~~ ~~Assessment~~ ~~(NATA)~~ ~~diesel~~ ~~PM;~~

11 ~~(iv)~~ ~~NATA~~ ~~cancer~~ ~~risk;~~

12 ~~(v)~~ ~~NATA~~ ~~respiratory~~ ~~hazard~~ ~~index;~~

13 ~~(vi)~~ ~~Traffic~~ ~~proximity;~~

14 ~~(vii)~~ ~~Lead~~ ~~paint~~ ~~indicator;~~

15 ~~(viii)~~ ~~National~~ ~~Priorities~~ ~~List~~ ~~Superfund~~ ~~site~~ ~~proximity;~~

16 ~~(ix)~~ ~~Risk~~ ~~Management~~ ~~Plan~~ ~~facility~~ ~~proximity;~~

17 ~~(x)~~ ~~Hazardous~~ ~~waste~~ ~~proximity;~~

18 ~~(xi)~~ ~~Wastewater~~ ~~discharge~~ ~~indicator;~~

19 ~~(xii)~~ ~~Proximity~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~Concentrated~~ ~~Animal~~ ~~Feeding~~ ~~Operation~~ ~~(CAFO);~~

20 ~~(xiii)~~ ~~Percent~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~population~~ ~~lacking~~ ~~broadband~~ ~~coverage;~~

21 ~~(xiv)~~ ~~Asthma~~ ~~emergency~~ ~~room~~ ~~discharges;~~

22 ~~(xv)~~ ~~Myocardial~~ ~~infarction~~ ~~discharges;~~

23 ~~(xvi)~~ ~~Low–birth–weight~~ ~~infants;~~

24 ~~(xvii)~~ ~~Proximity~~ ~~to~~ ~~emitting~~ ~~power~~ ~~plants;~~

25 ~~(xviii)~~ ~~Proximity~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~Toxic~~ ~~Release~~ ~~Inventory~~ ~~(TRI)~~ ~~facility;~~

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 168 3

1 ~~(xix)~~ ~~Proximity~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~brownfields~~ ~~site;~~

2 ~~(xx)~~ ~~Proximity~~ ~~to~~ ~~mining~~ ~~operations;~~ ~~and~~

3 ~~(xxi)~~ ~~Proximity~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~hazardous~~ ~~waste~~ ~~landfill.~~

4 5–1101.

5 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

6 (1) “Baltimore County tributary dredged material” means earth, rock, soil,
7 waste matter, muck, or other materials excavated or dredged from an approved dredging
8 project in any of the Baltimore County tributaries of the Chesapeake Bay.

9 (2) “Baltimore Harbor” means the waterway which consists of the tidal
10 portions of Patapsco River and its tributaries lying westward of a line extending from Rock
11 Point in Anne Arundel County to North Point in Baltimore County.

12 (3) “Beneficial use of dredged material” means any of the following uses of
13 dredged material from the Chesapeake Bay and its tributary waters placed into waters or
14 onto bottomland of the Chesapeake Bay or its tidal tributaries, including Baltimore Harbor:

15 (i) The restoration of underwater grasses;

16 (ii) The restoration of islands;

17 (iii) The stabilization of eroding shorelines;

18 (iv) The creation or restoration of wetlands; and

19 (v) The creation, restoration, or enhancement of fish or shellfish
20 habitats.

(4) “CONFINED CELL”21 AQUATIC DISPOSAL MEANS ~~AN~~ ~~UNDERWATER~~
22 ~~CONTAINMENT~~ ~~STRUCTURE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~STORES~~ ~~CONTAMINATED~~ ~~SEDIMENTS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~
23 ~~DEPRESSION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BOTTOM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~BODY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~WATER~~ A DREDGED MATERIAL
24 MANAGEMENT OPTION WHERE A DEPRESSION OR CELL IS EXCAVATED INTO THE
WATER,25 BOTTOM OF A BODY OF ANY SAND EXCAVATED IS REUSED IN A BENEFICIAL
MANNER, MATERIALS,26 AND THE DEPRESSION OR CELL IS FILLED IN WITH DREDGED
BALTIMORE HARBOR.27 INCLUDING DREDGED MATERIALS FROM

[(4)] (5)28 “Deep trough” means any region that:

29 (i) Is south of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge and north of a line
30 extending westerly from Bloody Point; and

PAGE 4
4 SENATE BILL 168

1 (ii) Has a depth that exceeds 60 feet.

[(5)] (6)2 “Dredged material” means earth, sand, silt, sediment, shell, rock,
3 soil, waste matter, or other material excavated or dredged from the Chesapeake Bay and
4 its tributary waters.

[(6)] (7)5 “Innovative reuse” includes the use of dredged material in the
6 development or manufacturing of commercial, industrial, horticultural, agricultural, or
7 other products.

~~(8)~~ ~~“OVERBURDENED~~ ~~COMMUNITY”~~ ~~§~~8 ~~HAS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANING~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~
~~1–701~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~9 ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

[(7)] ~~(9)~~ (8)10 “Redeposit” means to dump, scatter, pour, or otherwise deposit
11 dredged material.

[(8)] ~~(10)~~ (9)12 (i) “Sewage sludge” means the accumulated semiliquid
13 suspension of settled solids, or dried residue of these solids, that is deposited from sewage
14 in wastewater treatment plant tanks or basins.

15 (ii) “Sewage sludge” includes raw untreated sewage disposed from
16 the Back River Sewage Treatment Plant.

17 5–1102.

(1) [A] SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,18 (a) personTO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A
19 may not redeposit in an unconfined manner dredged material from Baltimore Harbor into
20 or onto any portion of the water or bottomland of the Chesapeake Bay or of the tidewater
21 portions of any of the Chesapeake Bay’s tributaries outside of Baltimore Harbor.

(2) [However, the] THE22 dredged material may be redeposited in contained
23 areas approved by the Department.

24 (b) A person may not redeposit in an unconfined manner Baltimore County
25 tributary dredged material into or onto any portion of the water or bottomland of the
26 Chesapeake Bay or of the tidewater portions of any of the Chesapeake Bay’s tributaries
27 within 5 miles of the Hart–Miller–Pleasure Island chain in Baltimore County.

(1)28 (c) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section AND SUBJECT TO
(2)29 SUBSECTION, a person may not redeposit in an unconfinedPARAGRAPH OF THIS
30 manner dredged material into or onto any portion of the water or bottomland of the
31 Chesapeake Bay or of the tidewater portion of any of the Chesapeake Bay’s tributaries
32 except when used for a beneficial use project undertaken in accordance with State and
33 federal laws.

PAGE 5
SENATE BILL 168 5

(2) [However, the] THE1 dredged material may be redeposited in contained
2 areas approved by the Department.

3 (d) (1) Beginning October 1, 2001, subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection,
4 and in accordance with State and federal law, a person may redeposit up to 7.4 million cubic
5 yards of dredged material into or onto any portion of the water, bottomland, or the
6 tidewater portions of the Chesapeake Bay collectively known as Pooles Island, including
7 G–West and Site 92.

8 (2) The redeposit of dredged material authorized under this subsection
9 may not occur after the sooner of:

10 (i) December 31, 2010; or

11 (ii) The initiation of the placement of dredged material in any site or
12 sites approved pursuant to the process established in § 5–1104.2(d)(1) of this subtitle if the
13 total capacity of the approved site or sites, when combined with the approved capacity of
14 existing placement sites identified in the October 1, 2000 report to the Maryland General
15 Assembly regarding the Governor’s Strategic Plan for Dredged Material Management,
16 provide 20 years of placement capacity for dredged material.

17 (e) A person may not dump, deposit, scatter, or release sewage sludge by any
18 means, including discharge from a sewer or pipe, into or onto any portion of the water or
19 bottomland of the Chesapeake Bay or of the tidewater portions of any of the Chesapeake
20 Bay’s tributaries within 5 miles of the Hart–Miller–Pleasure Island chain in Baltimore
21 County.

22 (f) A person may not redeposit dredged material or other material excavated or
23 dredged from the Chesapeake Bay or its tidal tributaries into or onto the area of the
24 bottomlands or waters of the Chesapeake Bay known as the deep trough.

(G) (1) THE DEPARTMENT25 MAY NOT PROCESS OR MAKE ANY
BOARD PUBLIC WORKS26 RECOMMENDATION TO THE OF REGARDING AN
27 APPLICATION FOR THE ALTERATION OF ANY TIDAL WETLAND OR WATERS OF THE
STATE28 SUBMITTED FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONSTRUCTING A CONFINED AQUATIC
~~5~~29 DISPOSAL CELL ~~WITHIN~~ ~~MILES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESIDENTIAL~~ ~~OVERBURDENED~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~
JUNE 1, 2025, MAY 31, 2029, INCLUSIVE.30 FROM THROUGH BOTH

(2) THE BOARD PUBLIC WORKS31 OF MAY NOT APPROVE AN
32 APPLICATION FOR THE ALTERATION OF ANY TIDAL WETLAND OR WATERS OF THE
STATE33 SUBMITTED FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONSTRUCTING A CONFINED AQUATIC
~~5~~34 DISPOSAL CELL ~~WITHIN~~ ~~MILES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESIDENTIAL~~ ~~OVERBURDENED~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~
JUNE 1, 2025, MAY 31, 2029, INCLUSIVE.35 FROM THROUGH BOTH

36 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
37 ~~October~~ June 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 4 years and, at the end of May

PAGE 6
6 SENATE BILL 168

1 31, 2029, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be
2 abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.