PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 103

M1 5lr0659
(PRE–FILED)

By: Senator Simonaire
Requested: June 9, 2024
Introduced and read first time: January 8, 2025
Assigned to: Education, Energy, and the Environment

Committee Report: Favorable
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 9, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Boating Accidents – Reporting Requirement – Property Damage

3 FOR the purpose of specifying that property damage that results from an accident that
4 involves certain vessels includes damage to navigational aid markers, lights, or
5 identifiers for purposes of a certain reporting requirement; and generally relating to
6 reporting property damage that results from an accident that involves certain
7 vessels.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Natural Resources
10 Section 8–724(b)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
14 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

15 Article – Natural Resources

16 8–724.

17 (b) If an accident involves any vessel subject to this subtitle while on the waters
18 of the State and results in the death, disappearance, or injury of any person or in property
19 damage of $2,000 or more, or there is complete loss of the vessel, the operator shall file with

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0103*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 103

1 the Department a full description of the accident, including any information the
2 Department requires by regulation. If the operator is unable to file the report, the vessel
3 owner shall file the report. If the accident caused the death or disappearance of any person
4 or a person receives medical treatment beyond first aid, the report shall be made within 48
damage,5 hours. Any other accident resulting in personal injury or property INCLUDING
MARKERS, LIGHTS, IDENTIFIERS,6 shall beDAMAGE TO NAVIGATIONAL AID OR
7 reported within 10 days. This subsection does not apply to a vessel required to have a
8 certificate of inspection under Chapter 1, Title 46, Code of Federal Regulations.

9 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
10 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.