PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 284

A2 5lr2153

By: Senator McCray
Introduced and read first time: January 10, 2025
Assigned to: Finance

Committee Report: Favorable
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 16, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Baltimore City – Alcoholic Beverages – Hours of Operation Violations – Civil
3 Penalties

4 FOR the purpose of establishing civil penalties for the offense by a holder of an alcoholic
5 beverages license in Baltimore City of operating the licensed premises outside
6 specified hours of operation without obtaining a certain exemption; and generally
7 relating to alcoholic beverages in Baltimore City.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
9 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
10 Section 12–102 and 12–2007
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2024 Replacement Volume)

13 BY adding to
14 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
15 Section 12–2802(f)
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2024 Replacement Volume)

18 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
19 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

20 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0284*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 284

1 12–102.

2 This title applies only in Baltimore City.

3 12–2007.

4 (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, a licensed premises shall
5 end all operations, including the serving of alcoholic beverages and food and providing
6 entertainment, at the closing hour for that class of licensed premises specified in this title.

7 (b) (1) The Board may grant an exemption for remaining open after hours to:

8 (i) a holder of a Class B restaurant license, only for serving food to
9 patrons seated for dining;

10 (ii) a pharmacy that fills prescriptions; or

11 (iii) a holder of a Class D beer, wine, and liquor license that operates
12 a restaurant, if:

13 1. it is used only for serving food to patrons seated in a dining
14 room that is not adjacent to a bar; and

15 2. the restaurant is located in the 46th legislative district in
16 the Legislative Districting Plan of 2022.

17 (2) A pharmacy that receives an exemption under paragraph (1) of this
18 subsection may also sell products other than alcohol after normal closing hours.

19 (3) A hotel that holds a Class B license and that serves food to seated
20 customers or for private functions or guest rooms may continue to provide food service.

21 (4) The Board may waive the requirement in paragraph (1)(iii)1 of this
22 subsection that a dining room not be adjacent to a bar.

23 12–2802.

(F) FOR24 THE OFFENSE BY A HOLDER OF AN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
25 LICENSE OF OPERATING THE LICENSED PREMISES OUTSIDE THE HOURS OF
26 OPERATION SPECIFIED IN THIS TITLE WITHOUT FIRST OBTAINING AN EXEMPTION
§ 12–2007 TITLE, BOARD SHALL:27 UNDER OF THIS THE

(1) OFFENSE, $1,00028 FOR A FIRST IMPOSE A FINE OF NOT LESS THAN
BOTH;29 OR SUSPEND THE LICENSE OR AND

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 284 3

(2) OFFENSE,1 FOR A SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT IMPOSE A FINE OF NOT
$2,000 $20,0002 LESS THAN AND NOT MORE THAN OR SUSPEND THE LICENSE OR
BOTH.3

4 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
5 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.