PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 341

C7 (5lr2013)
ENROLLED BILL
— Budget and Taxation/Ways and Means —
Introduced by Senator McCray

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
President.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Baltimore City – Raffles – Organizations Affiliated With a Professional Major
3 League Baseball Team

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing certain organizations that are affiliated with a professional
5 major league baseball team that plays its home games in Baltimore City to conduct
6 certain raffles; requiring the organization to obtain a permit to conduct raffles from
7 an agency designated by the Baltimore City government; requiring that raffle tickets
8 are sold using age–verification measures to ensure that the buyer is at least a certain
9 age; authorizing a raffle ticket to be sold and received in–person or on an electronic
10 device located within ~~the~~ a certain geographical ~~boundaries~~ ~~of~~ area in Baltimore City;
11 providing that, subject to certain limitations, an organization conducting a raffle
12 under this Act is not subject to a certain provision of law that prohibits the
13 organization from accepting credit as payment; and generally relating to raffles in
14 Baltimore City.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*sb0341*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 341

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Criminal Law
3 Section 13–501, 13–503, 13–505, and 13–510
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 BY adding to
7 Article – Criminal Law
8 Section 13–505.1
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
12 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

13 Article – Criminal Law

14 13–501.

15 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

16 (b) “Commissioner” means the Baltimore City Police Commissioner.

(C) “DESIGNATED AGENCY”17 CITY MEANS AN AGENCY DESIGNATED BY THE
BALTIMORE CITY GOVERNMENT.18

(D) (1) “ELECTRONIC DEVICE”19 MEANS A DEVICE THAT IS CAPABLE OF
TRANSMITTING, RECEIVING, MESSAGES, IMAGES, SOUNDS, DATA,20 OR RECORDING OR
THAT, APPEARANCE,21 OTHER INFORMATION BY ELECTRONIC MEANS OR IN
PHONE, COMPUTER, DEVICE.22 PURPORTS TO BE A CELL OR OTHER SUCH

(2) “ELECTRONIC DEVICE” COMPUTER.23 INCLUDES A CELL PHONE OR

(3) “ELECTRONIC DEVICE”24 DOES NOT INCLUDE A VIDEO LOTTERY
§ 9–1A–01 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.25 TERMINAL AS DEFINED UNDER OF THE

[(c)] (E)26 “Gaming event” means a carnival, bazaar, or raffle.

(F) (1) “GEOFENCE”27 MEANS TECHNOLOGY THAT ESTABLISHES A
BOUNDARY.28 VIRTUAL GEOGRAPHICAL

(2) “GEOFENCE”29 INCLUDES BOUNDARIES THAT ARE ESTABLISHED
OF:30 OR MONITORED THROUGH THE USE

(I) TECHNOLOGY;31 GLOBAL POSITIONING

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 341 3

(II) CONNECTIVITY;1 CELL TOWER

(III) DATA;2 CELLULAR

(IV) IDENTIFICATION;3 RADIO FREQUENCY

(V) TECHNOLOGY;4 WIRELESS FIDELITY OR

(VI)5 ANY OTHER FORM OF LOCATION DETERMINATION
TECHNOLOGY.6

[(d)] (G)7 “Raffle” means one or more drawings from a single series of chances
[from books].8 sold chance

9 13–503.

THIS §10 (a) SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A RAFFLE AUTHORIZED UNDER
13–505.1 SUBTITLE.11 OF THIS

(B) [(b)] (C)12 Before an organization listed in subsection of this section may operate
13 a gaming event, the organization shall obtain a permit from the commissioner.

[(b)] (C)14 (1) An organization that meets the conditions of paragraph (2) of this
15 subsection may conduct a gaming event for the benefit of any of the following listed
16 organizations if the organization is a bona fide:

17 (i) religious organization;

18 (ii) fraternal organization;

19 (iii) civic organization;

20 (iv) veterans’ hospital;

21 (v) amateur athletic organization in which all playing members are
22 under the age of 18 years; or

23 (vi) charitable organization.

24 (2) An organization conducting a gaming event shall:

25 (i) be located in Baltimore City; and

26 (ii) spend a majority of the organization’s funds in Baltimore City
27 for:

PAGE 4
4 SENATE BILL 341

1 1. fraternal purposes;

2 2. civic purposes;

3 3. purposes related to a veterans’ hospital;

4 4. purposes related to amateur athletics; or

5 5. charitable purposes.

[(c)] (D)6 (1) Before the commissioner may issue a permit, the commissioner
7 shall review the character of the organization applying for the permit to ascertain that the
8 organization meets the requirements of §§ 13–503 through 13–505 of this subtitle.

9 (2) The commissioner shall make any application for a permit and the
10 action taken by the commissioner on that application a matter of public record.

[(d)] (E)11 (1) The permit shall state that the gaming event shall be managed
12 and operated personally only by members of the organization obtaining the permit.

13 (2) The permit is not transferable.

[(e)] (F)14 An organization conducting a gaming event in Baltimore City may not
15 allow an individual or group of individuals to:

16 (1) benefit financially from the gaming event; or

17 (2) receive any of the proceeds of the gaming event for personal use or
18 benefit.

19 13–505.

20 (a) A permit holder may award prizes in merchandise and money in a raffle in
21 any amount.

[A] EXCEPT § 13–505.1(D)(1)(II) SUBTITLE,22 (b) AS PROVIDED IN OF THIS A
23 permit holder may not conduct more than 12 raffles in a calendar year.

13–505.1.24

(A) A THAT:25 RAFFLE MAY BE CONDUCTED BY AN ORGANIZATION

(1) BALTIMORE CITY;26 IS LOCATED IN

PAGE 5
SENATE BILL 341 5

(2) ORGANIZATION’S1 SPENDS A MAJORITY OF THE FUNDS IN
BALTIMORE CITY FOR:2

(I) PURPOSES;3 FRATERNAL

(II) PURPOSES;4 CIVIC

(III) VETERANS’ HOSPITAL;5 PURPOSES RELATED TO A

(IV) ATHLETICS;6 PURPOSES RELATED TO AMATEUR OR

(V) PURPOSES;7 CHARITABLE AND

(3)8 IS AFFILIATED WITH A PROFESSIONAL MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
BALTIMORE CITY.9 TEAM THAT PLAYS ITS HOME GAMES IN

(B) (1) BEFORE RAFFLE,10 CONDUCTING A AN ORGANIZATION SHALL
AGENCY.11 OBTAIN A WRITTEN PERMIT FROM THE DESIGNATED CITY

(2) BEFORE PERMIT,12 ISSUING A THE DESIGNATED CITY AGENCY
13 SHALL ASCERTAIN THE CHARACTER OF THE ORGANIZATION TO DETERMINE IF THE
ISSUED.14 PERMIT SHOULD BE

(C) (1) A15 PERMIT ISSUED TO AN ORGANIZATION UNDER THIS SECTION
TRANSFERRED.16 MAY NOT BE

(2) THE17 PERMIT SHALL STATE THAT THE RAFFLE IS REQUIRED TO BE
18 MANAGED AND OPERATED ONLY BY MEMBERS OF THE ORGANIZATION OBTAINING
PERMIT.19 THE

(D) (1) (I) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,20 TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
21 DESIGNATED CITY AGENCY MAY ISSUE A SINGLE PERMIT TO AN ORGANIZATION TO
22 HOLD RAFFLES AT MULTIPLE PROFESSIONAL MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL GAMES
BALTIMORE CITY.23 PLAYED IN

(II) THERE24 IS NO LIMIT ON THE NUMBER OF RAFFLES THAT AN
25 ORGANIZATION MAY CONDUCT IN CONJUNCTION WITH PROFESSIONAL MAJOR
BALTIMORE CITY.26 LEAGUE BASEBALL GAMES PLAYED IN

(2) A27 PERMIT TO HOLD RAFFLES AT MULTIPLE PROFESSIONAL
BALTIMORE CITY28 MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL GAMES PLAYED IN EXPIRES AT THE
ISSUED.29 END OF THE CALENDAR YEAR IN WHICH THE PERMIT IS

(E) AN MAY:30 ORGANIZATION CONDUCTING A RAFFLE

PAGE 6
6 SENATE BILL 341

(1) TICKETS;1 SET THE PRICE OF RAFFLE AND

(2) AMOUNT.2 AWARD PRIZES IN MERCHANDISE AND MONEY IN ANY

(F) AN3 ORGANIZATION CONDUCTING A RAFFLE MAY NOT ALLOW AN
TO:4 INDIVIDUAL OR GROUP OF INDIVIDUALS

(1) RAFFLE;5 BENEFIT FINANCIALLY FROM THE OR

(2)6 RECEIVE ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE RAFFLE FOR PERSONAL
BENEFIT.7 USE OR

(G) (1) A8 RAFFLE TICKET SOLD BY AN ORGANIZATION IN CONJUNCTION
BALTIMORE9 WITH A PROFESSIONAL MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL GAME PLAYED IN
CITY:10

(I) AGE–VERIFICATION11 ~~SHALL~~ MAY ONLY BE SOLD USING ~~ONLY~~
18 OLD;12 MEASURES TO ENSURE THAT THE BUYER IS AT LEAST YEARS

~~(I)~~ (II) IN–PERSON13 MAY BE SOLD AND RECEIVED OR ON AN
14 ELECTRONIC DEVICE ONLY WITHIN THE GEOGRAPHICAL BOUNDARIES ~~OF~~
~~BALTIMORE~~ ~~CITY~~ (2) SUBSECTION;15 DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS AND

~~(II)~~ (III) 116 SHALL BE SOLD AND RECEIVED NOT EARLIER THAN
17 HOUR BEFORE THE OFFICIAL START OF THE BASEBALL GAME AND NOT LATER THAN
GAME.18 THE SEVENTH INNING OF THAT BASEBALL

(2) AN SECTION:19 ORGANIZATION CONDUCTING A RAFFLE UNDER THIS

(I) § 12–108 ARTICLE,20 IS NOT SUBJECT TO OF THIS PROVIDED
$5021 THAT AN INDIVIDUAL MAY NOT PURCHASE MORE THAN WORTH OF TICKETS OR
DAY;22 MAKE MORE THAN ONE CREDIT TRANSACTION EACH AND

(II)23 SHALL USE A GEOFENCE TO ENSURE THAT RAFFLE TICKETS
24 SOLD AND RECEIVED ON AN ELECTRONIC DEVICE ARE SOLD AND RECEIVED ~~WITHIN~~
BALTIMORE CITY25 ~~THE~~ ~~GEOGRAPHICAL~~ ~~BOUNDARIES~~ ~~OF~~ WITHIN AN AREA IN THAT IS
FOLLOWS: WEST CAMDEN STREET26 BOUNDED AS FROM THE INTERSECTION OF AND
SOUTH HOWARD STREET, SOUTH HOWARD STREET WEST CONWAY27 SOUTH ON TO
STREET, WEST CONWAY STREET SOUTH EUTAW STREET,28 WEST ON TO SOUTH ON
SOUTH EUTAW STREET WEST LEE STREET, WEST LEE STREET29 TO WEST ON TO
RUSSELL STREET, RUSSELL STREET SOUTH PACA STREET,30 NORTH ON TO
SOUTH PACA STREET WEST CAMDEN STREET,31 NORTHEAST ON TO AND EAST ON

PAGE 7
SENATE BILL 341 7

WEST CAMDEN STREET WEST CAMDEN STREET1 TO THE INTERSECTION OF AND
SOUTH HOWARD STREET.2

3 13–510.

4 (a) A person may not knowingly conduct or attempt to conduct a bazaar or raffle
13–505.15 in violation of §§ 13–503 through 13–505 of this subtitle.AND

6 (b) A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction
7 is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 1 year or a fine not exceeding $1,000 or both.

8 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
9 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of ~~3~~ ~~years~~ 1 year and 1 month and, at the end
10 of ~~May~~ ~~31,~~ ~~2028~~ June 30, 2026, this Act, with no further action required by the General
11 Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.