PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 309

P1 5lr1409

By: ~~Senator~~ ~~Simonaire~~ Senators Simonaire, Brooks, and Carozza
Introduced and read first time: January 13, 2025
Assigned to: Education, Energy, and the Environment

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 25, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Department of Veterans and Military Families – ~~Online~~ ~~Registry~~
3 Communications, Outreach, and Advocacy Program – Alterations

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the Communications, Outreach, and Advocacy Program in
5 the Department of Veterans and Military Families to ~~establish~~ ~~and~~ ~~maintain~~ ~~an~~
6 ~~online~~ ~~registry~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~veterans,~~ ~~military~~ ~~families,~~ ~~and~~ ~~interested~~ ~~individuals~~ ~~with~~
7 ~~certain~~ ~~information~~ expand certain services to include service members and their
8 families; requiring the Secretary of Veterans and Military Families to include certain
9 information ~~about~~ ~~the~~ ~~online~~ ~~registry~~ in a certain annual report; and generally
10 relating to veterans and military families.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
12 Article – State Government
13 Section 9–901, 9–940, 9–942, 9–943, and 9–946(7) and (8)
14 Annotated Code of Maryland
15 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

16 ~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~without~~ ~~amendments,~~
17 ~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Government~~
18 ~~Section~~ ~~9–940(a)~~
19 ~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
20 ~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2024~~ ~~Supplement)~~

21 BY adding to
22 Article – State Government

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0309*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 309

1 Section ~~9–945~~ ~~and~~ 9–946(8)
2 Annotated Code of Maryland
3 (2021 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

4 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
5 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

6 Article – State Government

7 9–901.

8 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

~~(B)~~ ~~“ACTIVE~~ ~~DUTY”~~ ~~37~~ ~~U.S.C.~~ ~~§~~ ~~101.~~9 ~~HAS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANING~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~

~~(C)~~ ~~“ACTIVE~~ ~~MEMBER”~~ ~~IS:~~10 ~~SERVICE~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WHO~~

~~(1)~~ ~~SERVICES;~~11 ~~AN~~ ~~ACTIVE~~ ~~DUTY~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNIFORMED~~ ~~OR~~

~~(2)~~12 ~~SERVING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESERVE~~ ~~COMPONENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNIFORMED~~
~~ORDERS.~~13 ~~SERVICES~~ ~~ON~~ ~~ACTIVE~~ ~~DUTY~~

~~(D)~~ ~~“ARMED~~ ~~FORCES”~~ ~~10~~ ~~U.S.C.~~ ~~§~~ ~~101.~~14 ~~HAS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANING~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~

~~[(b)]~~ ~~(E)~~15 “Board” means the Board of Trustees of the Maryland Veterans Trust.

~~[(c)]~~ ~~(F)~~16 “Department” means the Department of Veterans and Military
17 Families.

~~(G)~~ ~~“MILITARY~~ ~~FAMILY”~~18 ~~INCLUDES~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SPOUSE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~DEPENDENT~~
~~BLOOD,~~ ~~MARRIAGE,~~19 ~~CHILDREN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~VETERAN~~ ~~RELATED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~OR~~
~~ADOPTION.~~20

~~(H)~~ (D) “RESERVE COMPONENT” 37 U.S.C.21 HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
§ 101.22

[(d)] ~~(I)~~ (E)23 “Secretary” means the Secretary of Veterans and Military Families.

~~(J)~~ (F) “SERVICE MEMBER” OF:24 MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS A MEMBER

(1) SERVICES;25 THE UNIFORMED OR

(2) SERVICES.26 A RESERVE COMPONENT OF THE UNIFORMED

[(e)] ~~(K)~~ (G)27 “Trust” means the Maryland Veterans Trust.

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 309 3

~~(L)~~ (H) “UNIFORMED SERVICES” 37 U.S.C.1 HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
§ 101.2

[(f)] ~~(M)~~ (I) [in subtitle], [means3 Except as otherwise provided this “veteran” an
4 individual who served on active duty in the armed forces of the United States, other than
dishonorable]5 for training, and was discharged or released under conditions other than HAS
38 U.S.C. § 101.6 THE MEANING STATED IN

7 9–940.

8 (a) In this part, “Program” means the Communications, Outreach, and Advocacy
9 Program.

10 (b) There is a Communications, Outreach, and Advocacy Program in the
11 Department.

12 (c) The purpose of the Program is to ensure that:

veterans, MEMBERS,13 (1) are informed ofSERVICE AND THEIR FAMILIES
14 the services, benefits, and assistance available to them from the State and federal
15 government and community organizations; and

veterans’, MEMBERS’,16 (2) general issues relating to SERVICE AND THEIR
FAMILIES’17 needs are brought to the attention of the Governor and the General Assembly
18 in order for them to be addressed.

19 9–942.

veterans, MEMBERS,20 (a) The Program shall actively help and theirSERVICE
21 dependents become aware of and access any service or benefit to which they are entitled
22 including:

23 (1) tax benefits;

24 (2) health care benefits;

25 (3) disability benefits; and

26 (4) pension benefits.

27 (b) The Program, in collaboration with the Maryland Higher Education
veterans, MEMBERS,28 Commission, shall actively help and their dependentsSERVICE
29 become aware of and access education and training benefits to which they are entitled.

30 (c) The director of the Program shall:

PAGE 4
4 SENATE BILL 309

veterans, MEMBERS,1 (1) support and their dependents throughSERVICE
2 the service or benefit process; and

[veterans’] MEMBERS,3 (2) refer veterans, dependents,SERVICE THEIR
[veterans’]4 and survivors to the appropriate governmental unit for claim assistance.THEIR

5 9–943.

[veteran’s]6 (a) (1) For the purposes of reaching any veteran, SERVICE
MEMBER, [veteran’s]7 dependent MEMBER, or survivorOF A VETERAN OR SERVICE OF A
8 in need of assistance in obtaining services or benefitsVETERAN OR SERVICE MEMBER
9 granted by the law, the director shall develop and implement a communications and
10 outreach plan.

11 (2) In order to carry out the director’s responsibilities under paragraph (1)
12 of this subsection, the director may:

13 (i) enter into contracts; and

14 (ii) work with governmental units and community–based
15 organizations, including the Maryland Department of Health, the Department of Aging,
16 faith–based groups, veterans groups, senior centers, adult day care centers, institutions of
17 higher education, and other entities the director considers appropriate.

18 (b) (1) The director shall develop mechanisms for outreach to be disseminated
19 by direct mail and through community–based veterans organizations, the Department, the
20 Department of Human Services, the Maryland Department of Health, and any other State
21 agency or unit the director considers appropriate.

22 (2) Communication mechanisms shall include:

23 (i) designing marketing materials describing the services provided
24 by the Program;

25 (ii) a regular electronic newsletter;

26 (iii) brochures describing various benefits or any other issue or
veterans, MEMBERS,27 benefit of interest to or their dependents; andSERVICE

28 (iv) other measures the director considers appropriate.

29 (c) The Department shall communicate welcome home information to veterans
30 returning to the State.AND SERVICE MEMBERS

PAGE 5
SENATE BILL 309 5

1 (d) The Department, in conjunction with the types of community–based
2 organizations listed in subsection (a)(2) of this section, shall develop communication tools
veterans, MEMBERS,3 to assist in identifying and dependents who may be eligibleSERVICE
4 for benefits and programs offered by the Department.

5 (e) The Program shall:

6 (1) manage the Maryland Veterans Service Animal Program and Fund
7 established under Part VIII of this subtitle;

8 (2) coordinate the responsibilities of veterans’ services specialists
9 designated under § 9–944 of this subtitle; and

10 (3) manage Department media relations, web content, social media,
11 internal and external communications, customer service training, and intergovernmental
12 relations.

13 (f) The director shall serve, as necessary, as the Secretary’s designee to
14 appropriate commissions, workgroups, and councils.

~~9–945.~~15

~~(A)~~ ~~ON~~ ~~DECEMBER~~ ~~31,~~ ~~2025,~~ ~~PROGRAM~~16 ~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~
17 ~~AND~~ ~~MAINTAIN~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ONLINE~~ ~~REGISTRY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~REGISTERED~~
~~INDIVIDUALS.~~18

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL:~~19 ~~REGISTRY~~

~~(1)~~ ~~REGISTER;~~20 ~~ALLOW~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~TO~~

~~(2)~~ ~~INFORMATION,~~21 ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~REGISTERED~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~INCLUDING~~
~~SERVICES,~~ ~~BENEFITS,~~ ~~VETERANS,~~22 ~~AVAILABLE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~NEWS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IMPACTS~~ ~~SERVICE~~
~~MEMBERS,~~ ~~FAMILIES,~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS;~~23 ~~MILITARY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~INTERESTED~~

~~(3)~~24 ~~ALLOW~~ ~~A~~ ~~REGISTERED~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~UPDATE~~ ~~THEIR~~ ~~ONLINE~~
~~INDIVIDUAL’S~~ ~~NAME,~~ ~~E–MAIL~~ ~~ADDRESS,~~25 ~~REGISTRY~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~THE~~
~~STATUSES;~~26 ~~AND~~ ~~OPTIONAL~~ ~~AND~~

~~(4)~~27 ~~HAVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CAPABILITY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~IMPORT~~ ~~SHAREABLE~~ ~~REGISTRATION~~
~~STATE~~ ~~GOVERNMENT.~~28 ~~DATA~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~AUTHORIZED~~ ~~UNITS~~ ~~OF~~

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM:~~29

~~(1)~~30 ~~SHALL~~ ~~REQUIRE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~REGISTERING~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ONLINE~~
~~INDIVIDUAL’S~~ ~~ADDRESS;~~31 ~~REGISTRY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NAME~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EMAIL~~ ~~AND~~

PAGE 6
6 SENATE BILL 309

~~(2)~~1 ~~SHALL~~ ~~REQUEST~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~REGISTERING~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~
~~INFORMATION:~~2 ~~ONLINE~~ ~~REGISTRY~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~OPTIONAL~~ ~~STATUS~~

~~(I)~~ ~~VETERAN;~~3 ~~WHETHER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~IS~~ ~~A~~

~~(II)~~4 ~~WHETHER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~IS~~ ~~CURRENTLY~~ ~~ON~~ ~~ACTIVE~~
~~DUTY;~~5

~~(III)~~ ~~OF:~~6 ~~WHETHER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~IS~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~

~~1.~~ ~~SERVICES;~~7 ~~THE~~ ~~UNIFORMED~~

~~2.~~ ~~COMPONENT;~~8 ~~A~~ ~~RESERVE~~ ~~OR~~

~~3.~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~DEFENSE~~ ~~FORCE;~~9 ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(IV)~~10 ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~A~~ ~~VETERAN~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~AS~~
~~(III)~~ ~~ITEM,~~ ~~IS:~~11 ~~DESCRIBED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ITEM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~WHETHER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~

~~1.~~ ~~VETERAN;~~12 ~~A~~ ~~SPOUSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OR~~

~~2.~~ ~~VETERAN;~~13 ~~A~~ ~~DEPENDENT~~ ~~CHILD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OR~~

~~3.~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL.~~14 ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~INTERESTED~~

15 9–946.

16 The Secretary shall submit a report by December 31 of each year to the Governor
17 and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of this article, the General Assembly, that includes:

18 (7) the status of federal veterans programs as they relate to Maryland
[and]19 veterans;

~~(8)~~ ~~INCLUDING:~~20 ~~A~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ONLINE~~ ~~REGISTRY~~

~~(I)~~ ~~REGISTRY;~~21 ~~THE~~ ~~TOTAL~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~

~~(II)~~22 ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REGISTRY~~ ~~LISTED~~ ~~BY~~
~~STATUSES,~~ ~~STATUS;~~23 ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~THOSE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~AN~~ ~~UNDECLARED~~

~~(III)~~24 ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~ADDED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REGISTRY~~ ~~IN~~
~~YEAR;~~25 ~~THE~~ ~~PREVIOUS~~ ~~AND~~

PAGE 7
SENATE BILL 309 7

~~(IV)~~1 ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~UNSUBSCRIBED~~ ~~OR~~
~~YEAR;~~2 ~~WERE~~ ~~REMOVED~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REGISTRY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PREVIOUS~~ ~~AND~~

(8)3 A GENERAL ASSESSMENT OF COMMUNICATION METHODS
COMMUNICATIONS, OUTREACH, ADVOCACY4 UTILIZED IN SUPPORT OF THE AND
PROGRAM;5 AND

[(8)] (9)6 any other issues concerning veterans that the Secretary
7 considers appropriate.

8 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
9 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.