PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 391

E4 5lr1411

By: Senator Smith
Introduced and read first time: January 17, 2025
Assigned to: Judicial Proceedings

Committee Report: Favorable
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 21, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Maryland Police Training and Standards Commission – Review of Report and
3 Recommendations

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Police Training and Standards Commission to
5 annually review a certain report published by the Independent Investigations
6 Division of the Office of the Attorney General; requiring the Commission to make
7 certain recommendations; and generally relating to the Maryland Police Training
8 and Standards Commission.

9 BY adding to
10 Article – Public Safety
11 Section 3–207(o)
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Public Safety

17 3–207.

(O) THE COMMISSION SHALL:18

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0391*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 391

(1)1 ANNUALLY REVIEW THE REPORT PUBLISHED BY THE
INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATIONS DIVISION OFFICE ATTORNEY2 OF THE OF THE
GENERAL § 6–602 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE;3 UNDER OF THE AND

(2) COMMISSION4 MAKE ANY RECOMMENDATIONS THAT THE
REVIEW.5 DETERMINES ARE APPROPRIATE BASED ON ITS

6 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
7 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.