PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 376

J3 (5lr1383)
ENROLLED BILL
— Finance/Health and Government Operations —
Introduced by ~~Senator~~ ~~Kramer~~ Senators Kramer, Ellis, Gile, Hayes, Hershey,
C. Jackson, Lam, Mautz, Ready, and A. Washington

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
President.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 ~~Health~~ ~~Facilities~~ ~~–~~ ~~Delegation~~ ~~of~~ ~~Inspection~~ ~~Authority~~ Maryland Department of
3 Health and Office of Health Care Quality – Nursing ~~Homes~~ Home Inspections –
4 Reporting

5 FOR the purpose of requiring ~~the~~ ~~Secretary~~ ~~of~~ ~~Health,~~ ~~on~~ ~~request~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~county,~~ ~~to~~ ~~delegate~~
6 ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~county~~ ~~the~~ ~~authority~~ ~~to~~ ~~conduct~~ ~~site~~ ~~visits~~ ~~and~~ ~~full~~ ~~surveys~~ ~~and~~ ~~complaint~~
7 ~~investigations~~ ~~of~~ ~~nursing~~ ~~homes;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Health~~ ~~to~~
8 ~~execute~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~memorandum~~ ~~of~~ ~~understanding~~ ~~with~~ ~~a~~ ~~requesting~~ ~~county~~ ~~within~~ ~~a~~
9 ~~certain~~ ~~period~~ ~~of~~ ~~time;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~that~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Health~~ ~~and~~
10 ~~certain~~ ~~counties~~ ~~equally~~ ~~share~~ ~~certain~~ ~~costs~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~ ~~circumstances;~~ ~~and~~
11 ~~generally~~ ~~relating~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~inspection~~ ~~of~~ ~~nursing~~ ~~homes~~ ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~delegation~~ ~~of~~ ~~authority~~
12 the Maryland Department of Health to report quarterly on disaggregated data
13 regarding nursing home inspections in each county; requiring the Office of Health
14 Care Quality to report to the local area agency on aging for each county the name of

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*sb0376*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 376

1 each nursing home in the county that was surveyed during a certain period and the
2 date each survey was conducted; and generally relating to reporting on nursing home
3 inspections.

4 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
5 Article – Health – General
6 Section 19–1408
7 Annotated Code of Maryland
8 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

9 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
10 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

11 Article – Health – General

12 19–1408.

13 (a) (1) Subject to subsection (c) of this section, the Department shall make a
14 site visit and conduct a full survey of each licensed nursing home at least once per calendar
15 year.

16 (2) Unless otherwise required by federal law, all surveys shall be
17 unannounced.

18 (b) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Department shall
19 initiate an investigation of a nursing home complaint alleging actual harm within 10
20 business days after receiving the complaint.

21 (2) If the Department receives a complaint against a nursing home alleging
22 immediate jeopardy to a resident, the Department:

23 (i) Shall make every effort to investigate the complaint within 24
24 hours after receiving the complaint; and

25 (ii) Shall investigate the complaint not later than 48 hours after
26 receiving the complaint.

27 (c) If ownership of a licensed nursing home is transferred to a person that does
28 not own or operate another nursing home in the State at the time of the transfer, the
29 Department shall conduct:

30 (1) The first full survey of the licensed nursing home as required under
31 subsection (a) of this section within 3 months after the date of transfer; and

32 (2) An unannounced, on–site follow–up survey of the licensed nursing
33 home that covers any deficiencies noted in the full survey within 120 days after the full
34 survey was completed.

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 376 3

(D) (1) ~~ON~~ ~~COUNTY,~~ ~~SECRETARY~~1 ~~REQUEST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~DELEGATE~~ ~~TO~~
2 ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~SITE~~ ~~VISITS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FULL~~ ~~SURVEYS~~ ~~AND~~
3 ~~COMPLAINT~~ ~~INVESTIGATIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~NURSING~~ ~~HOMES~~ ~~AUTHORIZED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~4

~~(2)~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~90~~5 ~~DAYS~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~RECEIVING~~ ~~A~~ ~~REQUEST~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~A~~
~~COUNTY,~~ ~~SECRETARY~~6 ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~EXECUTE~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMORANDUM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~UNDERSTANDING~~
7 ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~DELEGATE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~SURVEYS~~ ~~AND~~
8 ~~COMPLAINT~~ ~~INVESTIGATIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~NURSING~~ ~~HOMES~~ ~~AUTHORIZED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~9

~~(II)~~ ~~THE~~10 ~~MEMORANDUM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~UNDERSTANDING~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~
~~MARYLAND~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~HEALTH~~ ~~STANDARD~~11 ~~MODELED~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~MEMORANDUM~~ ~~UNDERSTANDING~~ ~~INTRA–AGENCY/INTERGOVERNMENTAL~~12 ~~OF~~
~~AGREEMENT,~~ ~~NURSING~~ ~~HOME~~ ~~FACILITIES,~~13 ~~ENTITLED~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~EXISTED~~ ~~BETWEEN~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~MONTGOMERY~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~JULY~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2019.~~14 ~~AND~~ ~~ON~~

~~(2)~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~15 ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~EQUALLY~~
16 ~~SHARE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COSTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~CONDUCTING~~ ~~SITE~~ ~~VISITS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FULL~~ ~~SURVEYS~~ ~~DELEGATED~~ ~~BY~~
~~SECRETARY~~ ~~(1)~~ BEGINNING JULY 1,17 ~~THE~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~
2025, 3 THEREAFTER, DEPARTMENT18 AND EVERY MONTHS THE SHALL REPORT TO
SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE HOUSE HEALTH GOVERNMENT19 THE AND THE AND
OPERATIONS COMMITTEE, § 2–1257 STATE20 IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, COUNTY,21 THE NUMBER OF SURVEYS CONDUCTED IN EACH
SURVEYS:22 DISAGGREGATED BY THE FOLLOWING TYPES OF

(I) STANDARD SURVEY;23

(II) COMPLAIN SURVEY;24

(III) FOLLOW–UP SURVEY;25

(IV) REVISIT SURVEY;26

(V) SPECIAL SURVEY;27 FOCUS FACILITY

(VI) ABBREVIATED SURVEY;28 AND

(VII) LIFE SURVEY.29 SAFETY CODE

(2) BEGINNING JULY 1, 2025, 6 THEREAFTER,30 AND EVERY MONTHS
OFFICE HEALTH CARE QUALITY31 THE OF SHALL REPORT TO THE LOCAL AREA
32 AGENCY ON AGING FOR EACH COUNTY THE NAME OF EACH NURSING HOME IN THE

PAGE 4
4 SENATE BILL 376

61 COUNTY THAT WAS SURVEYED IN THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING MONTHS AND THE
CONDUCTED.2 DATE EACH SURVEY WAS

3 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
4 ~~October~~ ~~July~~ June 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 4 years and, at the end of
5 May 31, 2029, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be
6 abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.