PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 335

M2 5lr1981
SB 42/22 – EHE CF HB 892

By: ~~Senator~~ ~~Bailey~~ Senators Bailey and Mautz
Introduced and read first time: January 15, 2025
Assigned to: Education, Energy, and the Environment

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 24, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Natural Resources – Canada Geese – Bag Limits

3 FOR the purpose of requiring, during the migratory Canada goose hunting season, the bag
4 limit for all Canada geese in certain areas of the State to conform to the bag limit for
5 migratory Canada geese adopted annually by the Department of the Interior’s U.S.
6 Fish and Wildlife Service; and generally relating to bag limits for Canada geese.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 Article – Natural Resources
9 Section 10–409
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2023 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Natural Resources

15 10–409.

(A) [Pursuant to] IN16 § 10–205 of this title, the DepartmentACCORDANCE WITH
17 shall establish and publish by April 25 each year the bag limits per day for game birds and
18 mammals by regulation for the ensuing year.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0335*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 335

(B) [The] EXCEPT (C) SECTION,1 AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
2 bag limits for ducks, geese, brant, railbirds, woodcock, mergansers, doves, and snipe may
3 conform to the federal migratory bird rules and regulations adopted annually by the
4 Secretary of the Interior of the United States.

(C) (1) THIS IN:5 SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY

(I) ALLEGANY COUNTY;6

(II) FREDERICK COUNTY;7

(III) GARRETT COUNTY;8

(IV) WASHINGTON COUNTY;9 AND

(V) THE CARROLL COUNTY10 PORTION OF GEOGRAPHICALLY
ROUTE 31 ROUTE 97.11 WEST OF AND

(2) DURING CANADA (ATLANTIC12 THE MIGRATORY GOOSE
POPULATION) SEASON, CANADA13 HUNTING THE BAG LIMIT FOR ALL GEESE IN THE
STATE, ATLANTIC FLYWAY RESIDENT14 INCLUDING GEESE FOUND IN THE
POPULATION HUNT ZONE ATLANTIC POPULATION HUNT ZONE,15 AND THE SHALL
ATLANTIC CANADA16 CONFORM TO THE BAG LIMIT FOR POPULATION GEESE ADOPTED
DEPARTMENT INTERIOR’S U.S. FISH WILDLIFE17 ANNUALLY BY THE OF THE AND
SERVICE.18

19 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
20 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 5 years and, at the end of June 30, 2030,
21 this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and
22 of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.