PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 455

E4 5lr2738

By: ~~Senator~~ ~~McKay~~ Senators McKay, Smith, West, and Folden
Introduced and read first time: January 21, 2025
Assigned to: Judicial Proceedings

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 7, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Security Guard Agencies – Special Police Officers – Application for
3 Appointment

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing a certain security guard agency to apply for the
5 appointment of special police officers in order to protect property owned or leased by
6 the security guard agency’s clients; and generally relating to special police officers.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 Article – Public Safety
9 Section 3–303
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Public Safety

15 3–303.

16 (a) The following entities may apply for the appointment of special police officers
17 for the following purposes:

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0455*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 455

1 (1) a municipal corporation, county, or other governmental body of the
2 State, in order to protect property owned, leased, or regularly used by the governmental
3 body or any of its units;

4 (2) another state, or subdivision or unit of another state, that has an
5 interest in property located wholly or partly in this State, in order to protect the property;

6 (3) a college, university, or public school system in the State, in order to
[or]7 protect its property or students;

8 (4) a person that exists and functions for a legal business purpose, in order
property;9 to protect its business OR

(5)10 A PERSON THAT HOLDS A VALID LICENSE AS A SECURITY GUARD
TITLE 19, SUBTITLE 3 BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS11 AGENCY UNDER OF THE AND
PROFESSIONS ARTICLE,12 IN ORDER TO PROTECT PROPERTY OWNED OR LEASED BY
13 CLIENTS.ITS

14 (b) The applicant for a commission shall be at least 18 years old.

15 (c) (1) This subsection does not apply to an applicant for an initial commission
16 who, within 5 years prior to application, has:

17 (i) completed a basic training course for police officers approved by
18 the Secretary in consultation with the Maryland Police Training and Standards
19 Commission;

20 (ii) completed a basic training course for police officers similar to the
21 course described in item (i) of this paragraph in another state or for the federal government;

22 (iii) separated from a law enforcement agency in good standing; or

23 (iv) completed training approved by the Maryland Police Training
24 and Standards Commission for a special police officer at a State institution of higher
25 education.

26 (2) An applicant for an initial commission shall complete a training course
27 approved by the Secretary in consultation with the Maryland Police Training and
28 Standards Commission consisting of at least 80 hours of instruction, including instruction
29 on:

30 (i) criminal law;

31 (ii) constitutional procedural requirements relating to search,
32 seizure, and arrest; and

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 455 3

1 (iii) the appropriate use of force.

2 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
3 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.