PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 533

E4 (5lr2945)
ENROLLED BILL
— Judicial Proceedings/Judiciary —
Introduced by Senators Folden, Bailey, Salling, ~~and~~ ~~Ready~~ Ready, Smith,
Waldstreicher, James, West, McKay, ~~and~~ Muse, and M. Jackson

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
President.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Public Safety – Police Accountability – Time Limit for Filing Administrative
3 Charges

4 FOR the purpose of altering the ~~deadline~~ deadlines for the completion of the process of
5 review and investigation by a certain investigating unit through disposition by an
6 administrative charging committee under certain circumstances; requiring a law
7 enforcement agency to file any administrative charges arising out of an investigation
8 of alleged police officer misconduct that is not required to be reviewed by an
9 administrative charging committee within a certain period of time; requiring an
10 administrative charging committee or law enforcement agency to file any
11 administrative charges for alleged police officer misconduct that ~~reasonably~~ ~~appears~~
12 ~~to~~ ~~be~~ is the subject of a criminal investigation within a certain period of time; and
13 generally relating to police accountability.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*sb0533*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 533

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Public Safety
3 Section 3–113
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2022 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
7 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

8 Article – Public Safety

9 3–113.

10 (a) The investigating unit of a law enforcement agency shall immediately review
11 a complaint by a member of the public alleging police officer misconduct.

12 (b) ~~An~~ ~~administrative~~ ~~charging~~ ~~committee~~ ~~shall~~ ~~review~~ ~~and~~ ~~make~~ ~~a~~ ~~determination~~
13 ~~or~~ ~~ask~~ ~~for~~ ~~further~~ ~~review~~ ~~within~~ ~~30~~ ~~days~~ ~~after~~ ~~completion~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~investigating~~ ~~unit’s~~ ~~review.~~

[The] EXCEPT ~~(E)~~ (D) SECTION,14 ~~(c)~~ AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS
OFFICER,15 FOR AN INCIDENT INVOLVING A MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC AND A POLICE
~~by:~~16 ~~process~~ ~~of~~ ~~review~~~~THE~~

(1)17 THE INVESTIGATING UNIT SHALL COMPLETE ITS INVESTIGATION
18 AND FORWARD ITS FINDINGS TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGING COMMITTEE
334 PUBLIC;19 WITHIN DAYS AFTER THE FILING OF A COMPLAINT BY A MEMBER OF THE

(2)20 THE ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGING COMMITTEE SHALL REVIEW AND
3021 MAKE A DETERMINATION OR ASK FOR FURTHER INVESTIGATION WITHIN DAYS
UNIT’S FINDINGS;22 AFTER RECEIPT OF THE INVESTIGATING AND

(3)23 the investigatingTHE PROCESS OF REVIEW AND INVESTIGATION BY
24 unit through disposition by the administrative charging committee shall be completed
395 ~~[filing~~25 within ~~1~~ ~~year~~ ~~and~~ ~~1~~ ~~day~~ after the of a complaint by a ~~citizen~~DAYS MEMBER OF
~~PUBLIC]~~26 THE ~~DATE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPROPRIATE~~ ~~OFFICIAL~~ ~~EMPLOYED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LAW~~
27 ~~INCIDENT.~~~~ENFORCEMENT~~ ~~AGENCY~~ ~~BECAME~~ ~~AWARE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(D)~~ (C) EXCEPT ~~(E)~~ (D) SECTION,28 AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS A
29 LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY SHALL FILE ANY ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGES ARISING
30 OUT OF AN INVESTIGATION OF ALLEGED POLICE OFFICER MISCONDUCT THAT IS NOT
31 REQUIRED TO BE REVIEWED BY AN ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGING COMMITTEE
1 132 WITHIN YEAR AND DAY AFTER THE DATE THAT THE APPROPRIATE OFFICIAL
AGENCY,33 EMPLOYED BY THE LAW ENFORCEMENT AS DETERMINED BY WRITTEN
AGENCY,34 POLICY OF THE LAW ENFORCEMENT BECAME AWARE OF THE INCIDENT
INVESTIGATION.35 THAT LED TO THE

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 533 3

~~(E)~~ (D) IF1 ALLEGED POLICE OFFICER MISCONDUCT IS ~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~
2 ~~ACTIVITY~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~REASONABLY~~ ~~APPEARS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~BE~~ THE SUBJECT OF A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION,3 AN ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGING COMMITTEE OR LAW
14 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY SHALL FILE ANY ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGES WITHIN YEAR
1 OF:5 AND DAY AFTER THE DATE

(1) AGENCY’S6 THE INVESTIGATING LAW ENFORCEMENT TIMELY
ACTIVITY;7 DETERMINATION THAT THE MATTER IS NOT RELATED TO CRIMINAL

(2)8 THE ~~FINAL~~ DISPOSITION OF ALL ~~RELATED~~ CRIMINAL CHARGES
OFFICER;9 FILED AGAINST THE POLICE OR

(3) COMMITTEE’S10 THE ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGING OR LAW
AGENCY’S11 ENFORCEMENT RECEIPT OF TIMELY NOTICE THAT THE APPROPRIATE
CHARGES.12 PROSECUTORIAL AUTHORITY DECLINED TO FILE CRIMINAL

13 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
14 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.