START OF PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 608

E2 (5lr3005)
ENROLLED BILL
— Judicial Proceedings/Judiciary —
Introduced by Senators Augustine and Smith

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
President.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Criminal Procedure – U Nonimmigrant Status Petitions

3 FOR the purpose of altering the requirements for certification of a U Nonimmigrant Status
4 Petition; altering the individuals eligible to request a certain official to certify victim
5 helpfulness on a certain form relating to certification of a U Nonimmigrant Status
6 Petition; altering the time periods within which a certain certifying entity shall
7 certify or decline a certain form under certain circumstances; requiring a certifying
8 entity to develop protocols to assist certain petitioners to take certain actions;
9 authorizing disclosure of certain information under certain circumstances; and
10 generally relating to U Nonimmigrant Status petitions.

11 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
12 Article – Criminal Procedure
13 Section 11–930 and 11–931
14 Annotated Code of Maryland

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING LAW.
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*sb0608*
END OF PAGE 1

START OF PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 608

1 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

2 BY adding to
3 Article – Criminal Procedure
4 Section 11–932
5 Annotated Code of Maryland
6 (2018 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

7 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
8 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

9 Article – Criminal Procedure

10 11–930.

11 (a) In this part the following words have the meanings indicated.

12 (b) “Certifying entity” means:

13 (1) a State or local law enforcement agency;

14 (2) a State’s Attorney or deputy or assistant State’s Attorney;

15 (3) any other authority that has responsibility for the detection,
16 investigation, or prosecution of a qualifying crime or criminal activity; or

17 (4) an agency that has criminal, CIVIL, FAMILY, OR ADMINISTRATIVE
18 detection [or], investigative, OR PROSECUTORIAL jurisdiction in the agency’s respective
19 areas of expertise, including child protective services, ADULT PROTECTIVE SERVICES, the
20 Commission on Civil Rights, and the Maryland Department of Labor.

21 (c) “Certifying official” means:

22 (1) the head of a certifying entity;

23 (2) an individual in a supervisory role who has been specifically designated
24 by the head of a certifying entity to provide U Nonimmigrant Status certifications on behalf
25 of that entity; or

26 (3) any other certifying official defined under Title 8, § 214.14(a)(3)(i) of the
27 Code of Federal Regulations.

28 (d) “FEDERAL U VISA NONIMMIGRANT STATUS PETITION GUIDELINES”
29 MEANS FEDERAL STATUTES, REGULATIONS, POLICIES, PUBLICATIONS, GUIDANCE,
30 AND INSTRUCTIONS RELATING TO U NONIMMIGRANT STATUS, INCLUDING 8 U.S.C.
31 § 1101(A)(15)(U), 8 U.S.C. § 1184(O) § 1184(P), 8 U.S.C. § 1367, 72 FED. REG. 53014
END OF PAGE 2

START OF PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 608 3

1 (SEPT. 17, 2007), 8 C.F.R. § 214.14 AND 245.24, 8 C.F.R. § 245.24, AND 8 U.S.C. §
2 1255(M)(1).

3 (E) “Qualifying crime” includes a criminal offense for which the nature and
4 elements of the offense are substantially similar to the criminal activity described in
5 subsection [(e)] (F) of this section and the attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit the
6 offense.

7 [(e)] (F) “Qualifying criminal activity” means criminal activity under §
8 1101(a)(15)(U)(iii) of the United States Code OR THAT IS DESCRIBED IN FEDERAL U VISA
9 NONIMMIGRANT STATUS PETITION GUIDELINES.

10 11–931.

11 (a) (1) For purposes of filing a petition with the United States Citizenship and
12 Immigration Services for U Nonimmigrant Status, a victim or the victim’s parent,
13 guardian, [or] next friend, ATTORNEY, VICTIM ADVOCATE, OR OTHER
14 REPRESENTATIVE may request a certifying official of a certifying entity to certify victim
15 helpfulness on a Form I–918, Supplement B certification if the victim:

16 [(1)] (I) was a victim of a qualifying criminal activity and has been
17 helpful, IS BEING HELPFUL, OR IS LIKELY TO BE HELPFUL [to the certifying entity] in
18 the detection, investigation, or or prosecution, INCLUDING SENTENCING, CONVICTION,
19 OR SENTENCING of that qualifying criminal activity;

20 [(2)] (II) was under the age of 16 years on the date that an act that
21 constitutes an element of qualifying criminal activity first occurred and the victim’s parent,
22 guardian, or next friend has been helpful to the certifying entity in the detection,
23 investigation, or or prosecution, INCLUDING SENTENCING, CONVICTION, OR
24 SENTENCING of that qualifying criminal activity; or

25 [(3)] (III) is incapacitated or incompetent and the victim’s parent,
26 guardian, or next friend has been helpful to the certifying entity in the detection,
27 investigation, or or prosecution, INCLUDING SENTENCING, CONVICTION, OR
28 SENTENCING of that qualifying criminal activity.

29 (2) (I) A VICTIM OF A QUALIFYING CRIME OR A QUALIFYING
30 CRIMINAL ACTIVITY IS ELIGIBLE FOR CERTIFICATION.

31 (II) IF A VICTIM IS APPLYING FOR CERTIFICATION AS A RESULT
32 OF BEING A VICTIM OF MORE THAN ONE QUALIFYING CRIME OR QUALIFYING
33 CRIMINAL ACTIVITY, EACH QUALIFYING CRIME AND QUALIFYING CRIMINAL
34 ACTIVITY SHALL BE LISTED ON THE CERTIFICATION.
END OF PAGE 3

START OF PAGE 4
4 SENATE BILL 608

1 (b) FOR PURPOSES OF DETERMINING HELPFULNESS FOR A REQUEST FOR
2 CERTIFICATION UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION, AN INDIVIDUAL SHALL
3 BE CONSIDERED HELPFUL IF, SINCE THE INITIATION OF HELPFULNESS, THE
4 INDIVIDUAL HAS NOT UNREASONABLY REFUSED TO COOPERATE OR UNREASONABLY
5 FAILED TO PROVIDE INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE REASONABLY REQUESTED BY
6 A CERTIFYING ENTITY.

7 (C) For purposes of determining helpfulness under subsection (a) of this section,
8 THERE IS A REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION THAT if the victim or the victim’s parent,
9 guardian, or next friend is assisting, has assisted, or is likely to assist law enforcement
10 authorities in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of qualifying criminal activity, the
11 victim or the victim’s parent, guardian, or next friend shall be considered to be helpful, to
12 have been helpful, or likely to be helpful. ~~is~~ ~~assisting,~~ ~~has~~ ~~assisted,~~ ~~or~~ ~~is~~ ~~likely~~ ~~to~~ ~~assist~~ ~~law~~
13 ~~enforcement~~ ~~authorities~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~detection,~~ ~~investigation,~~ ~~or~~ ~~prosecution~~ ~~of~~ ~~qualifying~~
14 ~~criminal~~ ~~activity,~~ ~~the~~ ~~victim~~ ~~or~~ ~~the~~ ~~victim’s~~ ~~parent,~~ ~~guardian,~~ ~~or~~ ~~next~~ ~~friend~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~
15 considered to be helpful, to have been helpful, or likely to be helpful HAS NOT
16 UNREASONABLY REFUSED TO COOPERATE OR UNREASONABLY FAILED TO PROVIDE
17 INFORMATION AND ASSISTANCE REASONABLY REQUESTED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT
18 AUTHORITIES, THE VICTIM OR THE VICTIM’S PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR NEXT FRIEND
19 SHALL BE CONSIDERED TO BE HELPFUL, TO HAVE BEEN HELPFUL, OR LIKELY TO BE
20 HELPFUL TO THE DETECTION, INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION, CONVICTION, OR
21 SENTENCING, OF THE QUALIFYING CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.

22 [(c)] (D) If the victim or the victim’s parent, guardian, or next friend satisfies
23 the criteria specified under subsection (a) of this section, the certifying official shall fully
24 complete and sign the Form I–918, Supplement B certification and, with respect to victim
25 helpfulness, include:

26 (1) specific details about the nature of the crime DETECTED, investigated,
27 [or], prosecuted, CONVICTED, OR SENTENCED;

28 (2) a detailed description of the victim’s PAST OR PRESENT helpfulness or
29 likely helpfulness to the detection, investigation, or or prosecution, INCLUDING
30 SENTENCING, CONVICTION, OR SENTENCING of the criminal activity; and

31 (3) copies of any documents in the possession of the certifying official that
32 evince the harm endured by the victim due to the criminal activity.

33 [(d)] (E) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) PARAGRAPHS (2), (3), AND
34 (4) paragraph (2) of this subsection, the certifying entity shall certify or decline certification
35 of the Form I–918, Supplement B certification within 90 45 days after receiving a request
36 under subsection (a) of this section.

37 (2) If a noncitizen victim is the subject of removal, exclusion, or deportation
38 proceedings or subject to a final order of removal, exclusion, or deportation, the certifying
END OF PAGE 4

START OF PAGE 5
SENATE BILL 608 5

1 entity shall certify or decline certification of the Form I–918, Supplement B certification
2 within 14 7 days after receiving a request under subsection (a) of this section.

3 (3) IF A NONCITIZEN VICTIM IS THE SUBJECT OF REMOVAL,
4 EXCLUSION, OR DEPORTATION PROCEEDINGS AND IS DETAINED PENDING
5 RESOLUTION OF THE PROCEEDINGS, THE CERTIFYING ENTITY SHALL CERTIFY OR
6 DECLINE CERTIFICATION OF THE FORM I–918, SUPPLEMENT B CERTIFICATION
7 WITHIN 7 DAYS AFTER RECEIVING A REQUEST UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS
8 SECTION.

9 (4) IF A QUALIFYING FAMILY MEMBER OF A NONCITIZEN VICTIM WILL
10 LOSE ELIGIBILITY FOR U NONIMMIGRANT STATUS IN 60 DAYS OR FEWER BECAUSE
11 OF THE AGE OF THE QUALIFYING FAMILY MEMBER, THE CERTIFYING ENTITY SHALL
12 CERTIFY OR DECLINE CERTIFICATION OF THE FORM I–918, SUPPLEMENT B
13 CERTIFICATION WITHIN 12 DAYS AFTER RECEIVING A REQUEST UNDER SUBSECTION
14 (A) OF THIS SECTION.

15 [(e)] (F) A current investigation, the filing of charges, a prosecution, or a
16 conviction is not required for a victim or the victim’s parent, guardian, [or] next friend,
17 ATTORNEY, VICTIM ADVOCATE, OR OTHER REPRESENTATIVE to request and obtain the
18 Form I–918, Supplement B certification under this section.

19 (G) THERE IS NO STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR WHEN A QUALIFYING
20 CRIMINAL ACTIVITY OCCURRED RELATIVE TO THE REQUEST FOR CERTIFICATION OF
21 VICTIM HELPFULNESS UNDER THIS SECTION A CERTIFYING ENTITY MAY NOT
22 DECLINE CERTIFICATION OF THE FORM I–918, SUPPLEMENT B CERTIFICATION
23 SOLELY BASED ON THE AMOUNT OF TIME THAT HAS PASSED SINCE A QUALIFYING
24 CRIME WAS COMMITTED THERE IS NO STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR WHEN A
25 QUALIFYING CRIMINAL ACTIVITY OCCURRED RELATIVE TO THE REQUEST FOR
26 CERTIFICATION OF VICTIM HELPFULNESS UNDER THIS SECTION.

27 (H) IF THE CERTIFYING OFFICIAL CANNOT DETERMINE WHETHER THE
28 APPLICANT IS A VICTIM OF A QUALIFYING CRIMINAL ACTIVITY OR DETERMINES
29 THAT THE APPLICANT DOES NOT QUALIFY FOR CERTIFICATION, THE CERTIFYING
30 OFFICIAL SHALL PROVIDE A WRITTEN EXPLANATION TO THE VICTIM OR THE
31 VICTIM’S PARENT, GUARDIAN, NEXT FRIEND, ATTORNEY, VICTIM ADVOCATE, OR
32 OTHER REPRESENTATIVE SETTING FORTH REASONS WHY THE AVAILABLE EVIDENCE
33 DOES NOT SUPPORT ISSUANCE OF THE CERTIFICATION.

34 [(f)] (I) A certifying official may DENY OR withdraw the certification provided
35 under this section only [on refusal to provide information and assistance when reasonably
36 requested of:

37 (1) the victim; or
END OF PAGE 5

START OF PAGE 6
6 SENATE BILL 608

1 (2) the victim’s parent, guardian, or next friend if the victim was under the
2 age of 16 years on the date that an act that constitutes an element of qualifying criminal
3 activity first occurred or if the victim is incapacitated or incompetent] IF, AFTER
4 CONSIDERING THE TOTALITY OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES, THE PERSON PROVIDING
5 THE HELPFULNESS UNDER SUBSECTION (A) OF THIS SECTION UNREASONABLY
6 REFUSED TO COOPERATE OR UNREASONABLY FAILED TO PROVIDE INFORMATION
7 OR ASSISTANCE REASONABLY REQUESTED BY A CERTIFYING OFFICIAL.

8 (J) (1) NOTWITHSTANDING ANY OTHER PROVISION OF THIS SECTION, A
9 CERTIFYING OFFICIAL’S COMPLETION OF A CERTIFICATION FORM MAY NOT BE
10 CONSIDERED SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE THAT AN APPLICANT FOR A U OR A T VISA U
11 NONIMMIGRANT STATUS HAS MET ALL ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR THAT VISA
12 STATUS, AND COMPLETION OF A CERTIFICATION FORM BY A CERTIFYING OFFICIAL
13 MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO GUARANTEE THAT THE VICTIM WILL RECEIVE
14 IMMIGRATION RELIEF UNDER FEDERAL LAW.

15 (2) COMPLETION OF A CERTIFICATION FORM BY A CERTIFYING
16 OFFICIAL ONLY SERVES AS VERIFICATION OF THE FACTUAL INFORMATION
17 RELEVANT FOR A FEDERAL IMMIGRATION OFFICIAL TO DETERMINE ELIGIBILITY
18 FOR A U OR A T VISA U NONIMMIGRANT STATUS.

19 (3) BY COMPLETING A CERTIFICATION FORM, THE CERTIFYING
20 OFFICIAL ATTESTS THAT THE INFORMATION IS TRUE AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF
21 THE CERTIFYING OFFICIAL’S KNOWLEDGE.

22 (4) THIS SECTION DOES NOT LIMIT THE MANNER IN WHICH A
23 CERTIFYING OFFICIAL OR CERTIFYING AGENCY MAY:

24 (I) DESCRIBE WHETHER THE PERSON HAS BEEN HELPFUL, IS
25 BEING HELPFUL, OR IS LIKELY TO BE HELPFUL TO THE CERTIFYING ENTITY; OR

26 (II) PROVIDE ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION THE CERTIFYING
27 OFFICIAL OR CERTIFYING ENTITY BELIEVES MIGHT BE RELEVANT TO THE
28 ADJUDICATION OF A U OR A T VISA APPLICATION NONIMMIGRANT STATUS
29 PETITION.

30 [(g) A certifying entity may disclose information relating to a victim who is seeking
31 or has obtained U Nonimmigrant Status only:

32 (1) in order to comply with federal law, court order, or a discovery
33 obligation in the prosecution of a criminal offense; or
END OF PAGE 6

START OF PAGE 7
SENATE BILL 608 7

1 (2) after adult petitioners for U Nonimmigrant Status or adult U
2 Nonimmigrant Status holders have provided written consent for the disclosure of the
3 information.

4 (h) (1) Except in cases of willful or wanton misconduct, a certifying entity or
5 certifying official who acts or fails to act in good faith in compliance with this section has
6 the immunity from liability described under § 5–643 of the Courts Article.

7 (2) A person who brings an action to seek enforcement of this section may
8 not be awarded attorney’s fees or costs unless the action demonstrates willful or wanton
9 misconduct by a certifying entity or certifying official.]

10 (K) A CERTIFYING ENTITY SHALL DEVELOP PROTOCOLS TO ASSIST
11 PETITIONERS WHO HAVE LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY TO PROCEED UNDER THIS
12 SECTION.

13 11–932.

14 (A) A CERTIFYING ENTITY OR A CERTIFYING OFFICIAL MAY DISCLOSE
15 INFORMATION RELATING TO A VICTIM WHO IS SEEKING CERTIFICATION, OR WHO IS
16 SEEKING OR HAS OBTAINED U NONIMMIGRANT STATUS ONLY:

17 (1) TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL LAW, A COURT ORDER, OR A
18 DISCOVERY OBLIGATION IN THE PROSECUTION OF A CRIMINAL OFFENSE; OR

19 (2) IF APPLICABLE, AFTER THE VICTIM HAS WAIVED
20 CONFIDENTIALITY PROTECTIONS UNDER THE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT
21 UNDER 34 U.S.C. § 12291(B)(2).

22 (B) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO ALTER OR DIMINISH THE
23 DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS OF A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, A STATE’S
24 ATTORNEY, OR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FROM DISCLOSING EXCULPATORY
25 INFORMATION TO A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL CASE.

26 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
27 October 1, 2025.
END OF PAGE 7