PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 666

O1, C9, C8 5lr2527

By: Senator Guzzone
Introduced and read first time: January 26, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Taxation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 22, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Maryland Community Action Agencies – Funding

3 FOR the purpose of requiring the Governor, in certain fiscal years, to include an
4 appropriation in the annual budget bill to the Department of Housing and
5 Community Development to be used as an operating grant to community action
6 agencies in the State; and generally relating to funding for community action
7 agencies in the State.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
9 Article – Housing and Community Development
10 Section 8–101(a) and (b) and 8–107(c)
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 BY adding to
14 Article – Housing and Community Development
15 Section 8–110
16 Annotated Code of Maryland
17 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

18 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
19 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

20 Article – Housing and Community Development

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0666*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 666

1 8–101.

2 (a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

3 (b) “Community action agency” means:

4 (1) a governmental unit in a political subdivision;

5 (2) a governmental unit created by a combination of political subdivisions;

6 (3) an agency designated as a community action agency under the
7 Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 as amended by the Community Services Block Grant
8 Program, 42 U.S.C. §§ 9901 through 9926; or

9 (4) a private, nonprofit organization that meets the requirements for
10 designation as a community action agency.

11 8–107.

12 (c) A community action agency shall actively supplement local efforts to combat
13 poverty by:

14 (1) focusing resources on the most needy;

15 (2) providing employment opportunities for low–income persons;

16 (3) closing service gaps; and

17 (4) enabling low–income persons to participate in community action
18 programs and projects.

8–110.19

FOR 2027 ~~2032~~ 2030, GOVERNOR20 EACH OF FISCAL YEARS THROUGH THE
$250,00021 SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF TO
DEPARTMENT:22 THE

~~(1)~~23 TO BE USED SOLELY AS AN OPERATING GRANT TO ELIGIBLE
AGENCIES;24 COMMUNITY ACTION ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~25 ~~TO~~ ~~BE~~ ~~DISTRIBUTED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~AMOUNTS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~YEARS:~~26 ~~FOLLOWING~~

~~(I)~~ ~~$500,000~~ ~~2027~~ ~~2028;~~27 ~~FOR~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEARS~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~$1,000,000~~ ~~2029;~~28 ~~FOR~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 666 3

~~(III)~~ ~~$3,000,000~~ ~~2030;~~1 ~~FOR~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~$5,000,000~~ ~~2031;~~2 ~~FOR~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~

~~(V)~~ ~~$7,000,000~~ ~~2032.~~3 ~~FOR~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~

4 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
5 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of 7 years, and, at the end of June 30, 2032,
6 this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and
7 of no further force and effect.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.