PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 695

K2 5lr2403

By: Senator Beidle
Introduced and read first time: January 26, 2025
Assigned to: Finance

Committee Report: Favorable
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 21, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Labor and Employment – Uninsured Employers’ Fund Board – Membership and
3 Reserves

4 FOR the purpose of altering the membership of the Uninsured Employers’ Fund Board;
5 requiring, rather than authorizing, the Board to establish reserves to meet potential
6 losses of the Uninsured Employers’ Fund; and generally relating to the Uninsured
7 Employers’ Fund.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Labor and Employment
10 Section 10–308 and 10–317
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
14 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

15 Article – Labor and Employment

16 10–308.

[3]17 (a) (1) The Board consists of members, appointed by the GovernorFIVE
18 with the advice and consent of the Senate.

[3]19 (2) Of the members of the Board:FIVE

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0695*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 695

[1 labor]1 (i) shall represent TWO SHALL HAVE SUBSTANTIAL
2 EXPERIENCE AS OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES OF A PROPERTY AND CASUALTY
3 COMPANY;INSURANCE

[1 and]4 (ii) shall represent management; ONE SHALL HAVE
FINANCE;5 SUBSTANTIAL EXPERIENCE IN THE FIELD OF ACCOUNTING OR

[1 public]6 (iii) shall represent the general ONE SHALL BE A
WORKERS’ STATE;7 POLICYHOLDER OF COMPENSATION INSURANCE ISSUED IN THE
8 AND

(IV)9 PUBLIC.ONE SHALL REPRESENT THE GENERAL

10 (b) Before taking office, each appointee to the Board shall take the oath required
11 by Article I, § 9 of the Maryland Constitution.

12 (c) (1) The term of a member is 4 years.

13 (2) At the end of a term, a member continues to serve until a successor is
14 appointed and qualifies.

15 (3) A member who is appointed after a term has begun serves only for the
16 rest of the term and until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

17 (d) The Governor may remove a member for incompetence or misconduct.

18 10–317.

[may]19 The Board establish reserves to meet potential losses of the Fund.SHALL

20 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
21 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.