PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 785

K3 5lr2339
CF HB 1340

By: Senator Ready
Introduced and read first time: January 27, 2025
Assigned to: Finance

Committee Report: Favorable
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 16, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Labor and Employment – Unpaid Parental Leave – Definition of Employer

3 FOR the purpose of altering the definition of “employer” to exclude employers who are
4 covered by the federal Family and Medical Leave Act for the current year from being
5 required to provide to employees a certain unpaid parental leave benefit in the State;
6 and generally relating to unpaid parental leave.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
8 Article – Labor and Employment
9 Section 3–1201(a) and (b)
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
13 Article – Labor and Employment
14 Section 3–1201(c)
15 Annotated Code of Maryland
16 (2016 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

17 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
18 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

19 Article – Labor and Employment

20 3–1201.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0785*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 785

1 (a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

2 (b) (1) “Eligible employee” means an individual who has requested that an
3 employer provide parental leave and who, as of the date that the requested parental leave
4 begins, will have been employed by that employer for at least:

5 (i) a 12–month period; and

6 (ii) 1,250 hours during the previous 12 months.

7 (2) “Eligible employee” does not include an individual:

8 (i) who is employed at a work site at which the employer employs
9 fewer than 15 employees if the total number of employees employed by that employer
10 within 75 miles of the work site is also fewer than 15; or

11 (ii) who is an independent contractor.

who:12 (c) (1) “Employer” means a person

(I)13 employs at least 15 but not more than 49 individuals in the State
14 for each working day during each of 20 or more calendar workweeks in the current or
year;15 preceding calendar AND

(II) FAMILY16 IS NOT COVERED UNDER THE FEDERAL AND
MEDICAL LEAVE ACT17 YEAR.FOR THE CURRENT CALENDAR

18 (2) “Employer” includes:

19 (i) a person who acts, directly or indirectly, in the interest of an
20 employer with respect to an employee of the employer; and

21 (ii) a successor in interest of an employer.

22 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
23 October 1, 2025.