PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 880

O4 5lr3081

By: ~~Senator~~ ~~Guzzone~~ Senators Guzzone, McCray, and Hettleman
Introduced and read first time: January 28, 2025
Assigned to: Budget and Taxation

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 28, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Governor’s Office for Children – Boys and Girls Clubs of Maryland – Grant
3 Funding

4 FOR the purpose of requiring the Governor to include a certain appropriation in the annual
5 budget bill ~~each~~ ~~fiscal~~ ~~year~~ in certain fiscal years to the Governor’s Office for
6 Children to provide certain grants for the Boys and Girls Clubs of Maryland; and
7 generally relating to grants provided by the Governor’s Office for Children.

8 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
9 Article – Human Services
10 Section 8–105
11 Annotated Code of Maryland
12 (2019 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

13 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
14 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

15 Article – Human Services

16 8–105.

17 (a) (1) There is a Governor’s Office for Children.

18 (2) The Office is a separate unit within the Executive Department.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0880*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 880

1 (b) The purpose of the Office is to provide a coordinated, comprehensive,
2 interagency approach to promoting the well–being of children and families through a
3 network of supports, programs, and services that are family and child–oriented and
4 reducing the number of children living in poverty.

5 (c) The Governor may provide for the structure, duties, and responsibilities of the
6 Office by executive order.

(D) ~~IN~~ ~~2027~~ FOR7 ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THEREAFTER~~ EACH
2027 2030, GOVERNOR8 OF FISCAL YEARS THROUGH THE SHALL INCLUDE IN THE
~~$5,000,000~~ $250,0009 ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF TO THE
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CHILDREN10 FOR TO PROVIDE GRANTS TO FUND OPERATING
BOYS GIRLS CLUBS MARYLAND.11 EXPENSES OF THE AND OF

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
13 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.