PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 820

L3 5lr3454
CF HB 1506

By: Senators Watson and Rosapepe
Introduced and read first time: January 28, 2025
Assigned to: Judicial Proceedings

Committee Report: Favorable
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 27, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Municipalities – Enforcement of Ordinances and Resolutions

3 FOR the purpose of increasing the maximum amount of a criminal fine or fine for a
4 municipal infraction that may be imposed by a municipality to enforce certain
5 ordinances and resolutions enacted by the municipality; and generally relating to
6 the enforcement of ordinances and resolutions by a municipality.

7 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
8 Article – Local Government
9 Section 6–101 and 6–102
10 Annotated Code of Maryland
11 (2013 Volume and 2024 Supplement)

12 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
13 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

14 Article – Local Government

15 6–101.

16 (a) The legislative body of a municipality may provide that violations of
17 ordinances and resolutions authorized by this division are punishable as misdemeanors.

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0820*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 820

1 (b) A penalty for a violation of an ordinance or resolution that is declared to be a
2 misdemeanor under this section may not exceed imprisonment for 6 months or a fine of
[$1,000] $5,0003 or both.

4 (c) Sections 7–504 and 7–505 of the Courts Article shall govern imprisonment in
5 default of fines and costs.

6 6–102.

7 (a) (1) Unless State law classifies a violation as a criminal offense, the
8 legislative body of a municipality may provide, by law, that a violation of a municipal
9 ordinance is a municipal infraction.

10 (2) A municipal infraction is a civil offense.

11 (b) The legislative body of a municipality may classify as a municipal infraction:

12 (1) a violation of an ordinance or regulation concerning zoning or land use;
13 and

14 (2) littering in the municipality as prohibited under § 10–110 of the
15 Criminal Law Article.

[$1,000] $5,00016 (c) (1) A fine not exceeding may be imposed for each
17 municipal infraction.

18 (2) The fine is payable to the municipality by the person charged in the
19 citation within 20 calendar days of service of the citation.

20 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
21 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.