PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 956

J5 5lr2483

By: Senator West
Introduced and read first time: January 28, 2025
Assigned to: Finance

Committee Report: Favorable with amendments
Senate action: Adopted
Read second time: February 23, 2025

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Health Insurance – Medicare Supplement Policies – ~~Broker~~ Insurance Producer
3 Commission

4 FOR the purpose of requiring a carrier to pay the same commission ~~rate~~ rates to ~~a~~ ~~broker~~
5 an insurance producer for the sale of certain Medicare supplement policies without
6 regard to whether the policies are sold ~~during~~ ~~a~~ ~~guaranteed~~ ~~issue~~ ~~period~~ ~~as~~ ~~a~~
7 ~~Medicare~~ ~~supplement~~ ~~policy~~ ~~sold~~ during an open enrollment period, as underwritten
8 policies, or under a certain provision of law; and generally relating to Medicare
9 supplement policies.

10 BY adding to
11 Article – Insurance
12 Section 15–922.1
13 Annotated Code of Maryland
14 (2017 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

15 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
16 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

17 Article – Insurance

15–922.1.18

(A) THIS MEDICARE ISSUED:19 SECTION APPLIES TO A SUPPLEMENT POLICY

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment. *sb0956*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 956

(1) § 15–909(B)(6) SUBTITLE;1 UNDER OF THIS OR

(2) 65 OLD.2 TO AN INDIVIDUAL AT LEAST YEARS

(B) A3 CARRIER SHALL PAY THE SAME COMMISSION ~~RATE~~ RATES TO ~~A~~
MEDICARE4 ~~BROKER~~ AN INSURANCE PRODUCER FOR THE SALE OF A SUPPLEMENT
5 POLICY WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER THE POLICY IS SOLD ~~DURING~~ ~~A~~
~~MEDICARE~~6 ~~GUARANTEED~~ ~~ISSUE~~ ~~PERIOD~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~SUPPLEMENT~~ ~~POLICY~~ ~~SOLD~~ DURING
PERIOD, POLICY, §7 AN OPEN ENROLLMENT AS AN UNDERWRITTEN OR UNDER
15–909(B)(6) SUBTITLE.8 OF THIS

9 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
10 October 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.