PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 972

A2 (5lr3244)
ENROLLED BILL
— Finance/Economic Matters —
Introduced by Senator Lam

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
President.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Anne Arundel County – Board of License Commissioners – Alterations

3 FOR the purpose of increasing the membership of the Board of License Commissioners for
4 Anne Arundel County; altering the eligibility requirements for Board membership;
5 requiring the Board to adopt and publish a certain ethics policy; requiring the Board
6 to include an option to provide certain information on an application for the issuance
7 of a license or a license renewal; prohibiting the Board from using certain
8 information as a factor in determining whether to issue or renew a license; requiring
9 the Board to submit a certain report regarding enforcement actions to the General
10 Assembly each year; ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~penalties~~ ~~that~~ ~~the~~ ~~Board~~ ~~may~~ ~~impose~~ ~~for~~ ~~certain~~
11 ~~violations;~~ and generally relating to the Board of License Commissioners for Anne
12 Arundel County.

13 BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
14 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*sb0972*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 972

1 Section 11–102
2 Annotated Code of Maryland
3 (2024 Replacement Volume)

4 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
5 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
6 Section 11–202(a) and (b) ~~and~~ ~~11–2802~~
7 Annotated Code of Maryland
8 (2024 Replacement Volume)

9 BY adding to
10 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
11 Section 11–210, 11–1409, and 11–2607
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2024 Replacement Volume)

14 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
15 That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

16 Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

17 11–102.

18 This title applies only in Anne Arundel County.

19 11–202.

[three]20 (a) (1) The Governor shall appoint members to the Board.FIVE

~~made[:~~21 (2) The appointments shall be

~~session,]~~22 (i) if the Senate is in with the advice and consent of the
~~Senate[;~~23 or

~~alone].~~24 (ii) if the Senate is not in session, by the Governor

25 (b) (1) Each member of the Board shall be:

26 (i) a resident and voter of the county; ~~and~~

27 (ii) SELECTED FROM A LIST OF INDIVIDUALS RECOMMENDED
ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY HOUSE SENATE28 BY THE MEMBERS OF THE OR
GENERAL ASSEMBLY;29 DELEGATION TO THE AND

(III)30 an individual of high character and integrity and of recognized
31 business capacity.

PAGE 3
SENATE BILL 972 3

1 (2) No more than ~~two~~ members of the Board may belong to theTHREE
2 same political party.

(3) NO BOARD3 MORE THAN TWO MEMBERS OF THE MAY BE
STATE DISTRICT.4 RESIDENTS OF THE SAME LEGISLATIVE

~~(4)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~BOARD~~5 ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~BE~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~
~~5~~ ~~1~~6 ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~SERVED~~ ~~AS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CHIEF~~ ~~INSPECTOR~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~YEARS~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ANNOUNCED.~~7 ~~DATE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~VACANCY~~ ~~IS~~ ~~PUBLICLY~~

11–210.8

THE BOARD9 SHALL ADOPT AND PUBLISH A WRITTEN POLICY RELATED TO
BOARD BOARD10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND THE RECUSAL OF MEMBERS FROM
MATTERS.11

11–1409.12

(A) THE BOARD SHALL:13

~~(1)~~14 INCLUDE ON ALL APPLICATION FORMS FOR THE ISSUANCE OF A
15 LICENSE OR A LICENSE RENEWAL AN OPTION FOR THE APPLICANT TO PROVIDE THE
APPLICANT’S INFORMATION;16 RACE AND ETHNICITY ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~17 ~~ENCOURAGE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPLICANT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~RACE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ETHNICITY~~
~~APPLICATION.~~18 ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~

(B) THE BOARD19 MAY NOT USE ANY RACE OR ETHNICITY INFORMATION
20 INCLUDED ON AN APPLICATION FOR THE ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE OR LICENSE
21 RENEWAL AS A FACTOR IN DETERMINING WHETHER TO ISSUE OR RENEW THE
LICENSE.22

11–2607.23

ON JANUARY 15 YEAR, BOARD24 OR BEFORE EACH THE SHALL REPORT TO THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT25 IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE,26 ON THE RACIAL BREAKDOWN OF THE DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS TAKEN BY
BOARD YEAR.27 THE IN THE PRECEDING CALENDAR

28 ~~11–2802.~~

PAGE 4
4 SENATE BILL 972

~~[The~~1 ~~(a)~~ ~~Board~~ ~~may~~ ~~impose~~ ~~a~~ ~~fine~~ ~~not~~ ~~exceeding~~ ~~$2,500~~ ~~or~~ ~~suspend~~ ~~a~~ ~~license~~ ~~or~~
~~for]~~ ~~FOR~~2 ~~both~~ ~~a~~ ~~violation~~ ~~that~~ ~~is~~ ~~cause~~ ~~for~~ ~~license~~ ~~suspension~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~alcoholic~~ ~~beverage~~
~~county,~~ ~~BOARD~~ ~~MAY:~~3 ~~laws~~ ~~affecting~~ ~~the~~ ~~THE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~OFFENSE,~~ ~~$1,000;~~4 ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~FIRST~~ ~~IMPOSE~~ ~~A~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~

~~(2)~~ ~~24–MONTH~~ ~~PERIOD,~~5 ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~SECOND~~ ~~OFFENSE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~ ~~IMPOSE~~
~~$2,000~~ ~~BOTH;~~6 ~~A~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~SUSPEND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~24–MONTH~~7 ~~FOR~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~SUBSEQUENT~~ ~~OFFENSE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~
~~PERIOD,~~ ~~$2,500~~8 ~~IMPOSE~~ ~~A~~ ~~FINE~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~EXCEEDING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~SUSPEND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~OR~~
9 ~~BOTH.~~

10 ~~(b)~~ ~~A~~ ~~fine~~ ~~or~~ ~~suspension~~ ~~under~~ ~~subsection~~ ~~(a)~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~section~~ ~~is~~ ~~in~~ ~~addition~~ ~~to~~ ~~any~~
11 ~~term~~ ~~or~~ ~~condition~~ ~~that~~ ~~the~~ ~~Board~~ ~~may~~ ~~impose~~ ~~as~~ ~~a~~ ~~result~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~violation.~~

12 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
13 1, 2025.

Approved:

________________________________________________________________________________
Governor.

________________________________________________________________________________
President of the Senate.

________________________________________________________________________________
Speaker of the House of Delegates.