PAGE 1
SENATE BILL 1030

R6 (5lr3249)
ENROLLED BILL
— Judicial Proceedings/Environment and Transportation —
Introduced by Senators Attar and Hettleman

Read and Examined by Proofreaders:

_______________________________________________
Proofreader.
_______________________________________________
Proofreader.

Sealed with the Great Seal and presented to the Governor, for his approval this

_______ day of _______________ at ________________________ o’clock, ________M.

______________________________________________
President.

CHAPTER ______

1 AN ACT concerning

2 Baltimore County and Baltimore City – Vehicle Laws – Lighting on Privately
3 Owned Vehicles

4 FOR the purpose of authorizing certain officers from a certain volunteer emergency medical
5 services ~~organizations~~ ~~located~~ organization operating in Baltimore County and
6 Baltimore City to have their privately owned vehicles equipped with certain lighting
7 devices; and generally relating to vehicle lighting and volunteer emergency services.

8 BY renumbering
9 Article – Transportation
10 Section 22–218(c)(4) through (13)
11 to be Section 22–218(c)(5) through (14), respectively
12 Annotated Code of Maryland
13 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

EXPLANATION: CAPITALS LAW.INDICATE MATTER ADDED TO EXISTING
[Brackets] indicate matter deleted from existing law.
Underlining indicates amendments to bill.
~~Strike~~ ~~out~~ indicates matter stricken from the bill by amendment or deleted from the law by
amendment.
Italics indicate opposite chamber/conference committee amendments.*sb1030*

PAGE 2
2 SENATE BILL 1030

1 BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
2 Article – Transportation
3 Section 22–218(c)(1)
4 Annotated Code of Maryland
5 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

6 BY adding to
7 Article – Transportation
8 Section 22–218(c)(4)
9 Annotated Code of Maryland
10 (2020 Replacement Volume and 2024 Supplement)

11 SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
12 That Section(s) 22–218(c)(4) through (13) of Article – Transportation of the Annotated Code
13 of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 22–218(c)(5) through (14), respectively.

14 SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
15 as follows:

16 Article – Transportation

17 22–218.

18 (c) (1) A person may not drive or move on any highway any vehicle or
19 equipment that is equipped with or displays any light or signal device designed to emit an
20 oscillating, rotating, blinking, or other type of emission of light, unless designated and
[(13)] (14)21 authorized by the Administrator as indicated in paragraphs (2) through of this
22 subsection. The provisions of this section do not prohibit the display and use of any lighting
23 device that may be permitted or required elsewhere in the Maryland Vehicle Law.

(4) ~~IN~~24 ~~EACH~~ ~~NONPROFIT~~ ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~EMERGENCY~~ ~~MEDICAL~~
~~BALTIMORE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~BALTIMORE~~ ~~CITY~~25 ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~LOCATED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AND~~
UNDER26 ~~OPERATES~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMMERCIAL~~ ~~AMBULANCE~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LICENSE~~ THE
HATZALAH BALTIMORE,27 COMMERCIAL AMBULANCE SERVICE LICENSE HELD BY OF
HIGHEST–RANKING28 NO MORE THAN FIVE OF THE OFFICERS MAY HAVE THEIR
29 PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLES EQUIPPED WITH RED OR RED AND WHITE LIGHTS OR
30 SIGNAL DEVICES WHICH MAY BE DISPLAYED ONLY WHILE ON ROUTE TO OR AT THE
EMERGENCY.31 SCENE OF AN

32 SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
33 October 1, 2025.