PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 258

Chapter 258

(House Bill 68)

AN ACT concerning

Continuing Care Retirement Communities – ~~Governing~~ ~~Bodies~~ Transparency,
Grievances, and ~~Entrance~~ ~~Fees~~ Unit Reoccupancy

FOR the purpose of ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~membership~~ ~~of~~ ~~governing~~ ~~bodies~~ ~~of~~ ~~continuing~~ ~~care~~
~~retirement~~ ~~communities~~ ~~by~~ ~~increasing~~ ~~the~~ ~~number~~ ~~of~~ ~~subscribers~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~
~~circumstances~~ requiring a provider to post the provider’s most recent disclosure
statement on the provider’s website; altering the number of times ~~select~~ ~~committees~~
~~of~~ ~~certain~~ providers are required to ~~meet~~ ~~with~~ hold a meeting open to all of the
provider’s subscribers each year; requiring an authorized officer of a provider to
provide a summary of certain grievance information at certain meetings; authorizing
a subscriber member of a governing body to report on certain nonconfidential
information; requiring the Department of Aging to collect certain information about
certain internal grievances; ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~processes~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~termination~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~continuing~~
~~care~~ ~~agreement~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~ ~~circumstances;~~ ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~process~~ ~~for~~ ~~refunding~~
~~certain~~ ~~entrance~~ ~~fees~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~ ~~circumstances;~~ requiring a provider to submit
certain reports to a subscriber or a subscriber’s beneficiary if the subscriber’s unit
has not been reoccupied within certain periods of time; and generally relating to
continuing care retirement communities.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Human Services
Section 10–101(a), (e), and (h)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Human~~ ~~Services~~
~~Section~~ ~~10–401(v)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2019~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Human Services
Section ~~10–401(v)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(w),~~ ~~10–408(b)(3),~~ 10–424, 10–426, 10–427, 10–428, and
10–449
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 258 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Article – Human Services

10–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(e) “Department” means the Department of Aging.

(h) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Aging.

~~10–401.~~

~~(V)~~ ~~“RESIDENT~~ ~~ASSOCIATION”~~ ~~INCLUDES~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESIDENT~~ ~~ASSOCIATION~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AN~~
~~BODY.~~~~EQUIVALENT~~

~~[(v)]~~ ~~(W)~~ ~~“Subscriber”~~ ~~means~~ ~~an~~ ~~individual~~ ~~for~~ ~~whom~~ ~~a~~ ~~continuing~~ ~~care~~
~~agreement~~ ~~is~~ ~~purchased.~~

~~[(w)]~~ ~~(X)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~“Surcharge”~~ ~~means~~ ~~a~~ ~~separate~~ ~~and~~ ~~additional~~ ~~charge~~ ~~that:~~

~~(i)~~ ~~is~~ ~~imposed~~ ~~simultaneously~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~entrance~~ ~~fee;~~ ~~and~~

~~(ii)~~ ~~may~~ ~~be~~ ~~required~~ ~~of~~ ~~some,~~ ~~but~~ ~~not~~ ~~all,~~ ~~subscribers~~ ~~because~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~
~~condition~~ ~~or~~ ~~circumstance~~ ~~that~~ ~~applies~~ ~~only~~ ~~to~~ ~~those~~ ~~subscribers.~~

~~(2)~~ ~~“Surcharge”~~ ~~does~~ ~~not~~ ~~include~~ ~~a~~ ~~second~~ ~~person~~ ~~entrance~~ ~~fee.~~

~~10–408.~~

~~(b)~~ ~~(3)~~ ~~A~~ ~~capital~~ ~~improvement~~ ~~or~~ ~~replacement~~ ~~that~~ ~~does~~ ~~not~~ ~~meet~~ ~~the~~ ~~standard~~
~~[§~~ ~~10–401(w)]~~ ~~§~~ ~~10–401(X)~~~~of~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subtitle~~ ~~is~~ ~~not~~ ~~subject~~ ~~to~~ ~~review~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~
~~under~~ ~~§§~~ ~~10–409~~ ~~through~~ ~~10–415~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subtitle.~~

10–424.

(a) (1) A provider shall give without cost a disclosure statement for each
facility for which the provider holds a preliminary, initial, or renewal certificate of
registration:

(i) to a prospective subscriber before the earlier of payment of any
part of the entrance fee or execution of a continuing care agreement; and

(ii) annually to any subscriber who requests a disclosure statement.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 258

(2) A provider shall submit its initial disclosure statement to the
Department for review at least 45 days before giving the statement to any prospective
subscriber.

(b) (1) A provider shall revise the disclosure statement annually and file it
with the Department within 120 days after the end of the provider’s fiscal year.

(2) The Department shall review the disclosure statement solely to ensure
compliance with § 10–425 of this subtitle.

(c) (1) An amended disclosure statement is subject to each requirement of this
subtitle.

(2) A provider shall file an amended disclosure statement with the
Department when it is delivered to a subscriber or prospective subscriber.

(D) A PROVIDER SHALL POST THE MOST RECENT DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
PROVIDER’S WEBSITE.ON THE

10–426.

[once year](a) At least a QUARTERLY, each provider shall hold a meeting open
to all of the provider’s subscribers.

[meeting](b) At the MEETINGS, an authorized officer of the provider shall:

(1) summarize the provider’s operations, significant changes from the
previous year, and goals and objectives for the next year; and

(2) answer subscribers’ questions.

(C) AT YEAR,THE LAST QUARTERLY MEETING OF THE AN AUTHORIZED
AGGREGATED,OFFICER OF THE PROVIDER SHALL PROVIDE AN DEIDENTIFIED
§ 10–428SUMMARY OF INTERNAL GRIEVANCES SUBMITTED UNDER OF THIS
SUBTITLE.

10–427.

~~[one]~~(a) (1) If a provider has a governing body, at least of the provider’s~~TWO~~
~~[a]~~ ~~[member]~~subscribers shall be full and regular of the governing body.~~MEMBERS~~

~~[more~~ ~~three]~~(2) If the provider owns or operates than facilities~~MULTIPLE~~
~~[for~~in the State, the governing body shall include at least one of the provider’s subscribers
~~facilities]~~every three in the State.~~FROM~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FACILITY~~

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 258 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~[Subject~~ ~~a]~~ ~~A~~(3) to paragraph (4) of this subsection, member of the
governing body who is selected to meet the requirements of this subsection shall be a
~~[selected~~subscriber at a facility in the State and be according to the same general written
~~body]~~standards and criteria used to select other members of the governing ~~ELECTED~~ ~~BY~~
~~FACILITY.~~~~THE~~ ~~RESIDENT~~ ~~ASSOCIATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~[The~~(4) governing body shall confer with the resident association at each
~~body].~~of the provider’s facilities before the subscriber officially joins the governing

(5) (I) A SUBSCRIBER MEMBER OF A GOVERNING BODY MAY
DELIBERATIONS, ACTIONS,REPORT ON NONCONFIDENTIAL AND POLICIES OF THE
ASSOCIATION.GOVERNING BODY TO THE RESIDENT

(II) THE GOVERNING BODY IN ITS SOLE BUT REASONABLE
CONFIDENTIAL.DISCRETION SHALL DETERMINE WHETHER A MATTER IS

~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER’S~~~~(5)~~ ~~GOVERNING~~ ~~BODY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FACILITIES~~
~~SHALL~~ ~~DIRECT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~OFFICER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~TO~~ ~~MEET~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~QUARTERLY~~ ~~TO~~
~~REVIEW~~ ~~AND~~ ~~DISCUSS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CURRENT~~ ~~FINANCIAL~~ ~~STATEMENTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER~~
~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RESIDENT~~ ~~ASSOCIATION~~ ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMMITTEE~~ ~~DESIGNATED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RESIDENT~~
~~ASSOCIATION.~~

(6) The Secretary may waive the requirements of this subsection for a
provider in the process of decertifying as a provider, if the Secretary determines that there
are no subscribers willing and able to serve on the governing body.

(b) (1) If a provider does not have a governing body, the provider shall appoint
[twice year]a select committee of its officers or partners to meet at least a QUARTERLY
with the resident association at each of its facilities to address concerns of the subscribers
and to ensure that the opinions of subscribers are relayed to all officers or partners of the
provider.

(2) If a facility does not have a resident association, the committee shall
meet with a reasonable number of representatives, not required to exceed fifteen, that the
subscribers elect.

(c) As determined by the provider’s governing body, the provider shall make
available to subscribers either the nonconfidential portions of the minutes of each meeting
of the governing body or a summary of the nonconfidential portions of the minutes, within
1 month of approval of the minutes.

10–428.

(a) A provider shall establish an internal grievance procedure to address a
subscriber’s grievance.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 258

(b) The internal grievance procedure shall at least:

(1) allow a subscriber or group of subscribers collectively to submit a
written grievance to the provider;

(2) require the provider to send a written acknowledgment to the
subscriber or group of subscribers within 5 days after receipt of the written grievance;

(3) require the provider to assign personnel to investigate the grievance;

(4) give a subscriber or group of subscribers who file a written grievance
the right to meet with management of the provider within 30 days after receipt of the
written grievance to present the grievance; and

(5) require the provider to respond in writing within 45 days after receipt
of the written grievance regarding the investigation and resolution of the grievance.

(c) (1) Within 30 days after the conclusion of an internal grievance procedure
established under this section, a subscriber, group of subscribers, or provider may seek
mediation through one of the Community Mediation Centers in the State or another
mediation provider.

(2) If a provider, subscriber, or group of subscribers seeks mediation under
paragraph (1) of this subsection, the mediation shall be nonbinding.

(D) (1) ~~AT~~ ON BASIS,~~LEAST~~ ~~TWICE~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~YEAR~~ AN ANNUAL THE
DEPARTMENT SHALL COLLECT FROM EACH PROVIDER INFORMATION ABOUT
PROVIDER’S FACILITIES,INTERNAL GRIEVANCES FILED FOR EACH OF THE
INCLUDING:

(I) FILED;THE NUMBER OF INTERNAL GRIEVANCES

(II) THE ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~MATTER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~GRIEVANCE~~ ~~FILED~~
AGGREGATED, GRIEVANCES;DEIDENTIFIED SUMMARY OF INTERNAL

(III) WHETHER A GRIEVANCE WENT TO MEDIATION AND THE
MEDIATION;OUTCOME OF THE AND

(IV) GRIEVANCE.THE FINAL DISPOSITION OF EACH FILED

(2) ON DECEMBER 1 YEAR, DEPARTMENTOR BEFORE EACH THE
SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE HOUSE HEALTHSHALL REPORT TO THE AND THE
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS COMMITTEE, § 2–1257AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 258 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,THE ON THE DATA RECEIVED FROM EACH
(1) SUBSECTION.PROVIDER UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

10–449.

(a) A continuing care agreement shall allow a subscriber to terminate the
agreement by giving a written termination notice to the provider.

~~[(b)~~ If a continuing care agreement is terminated by the subscriber’s election or
death within the first 90 days of occupancy, the provider shall pay any contractual entrance
fee refund within 30 days after the earlier to occur of:

(1) the recontracting of the subscriber’s unit by:

(i) another subscriber for whom an entrance fee has been paid; or

(ii) another party who is not a subscriber; or

(2) the later to occur of:

(i) the 90th day after the date the written termination notice is
given or the date of death; or

(ii) the day the independent living units at the facility have operated
at 95% of capacity for the previous 6 months.

(c) If a continuing care agreement is terminated by the subscriber’s election or
death after the first 90 days of occupancy, the provider shall pay any contractual entrance
fee refund within 60 days after the subscriber’s death or the effective date of termination,
if on the date of death or at any time between the date the written termination notice is
given and the effective date of termination:

(1) the subscriber resides in a unit at a higher level of care than the level
of care in which the subscriber resided on initially entering the facility; and

(2) the last unit in which the subscriber resided at the initial level of care
on entering the facility has been occupied by or reserved for another subscriber who has
~~fee.]~~paid an entrance

~~(B)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~TERMINATED:~~~~A~~ ~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~IS~~

~~(I)~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER,~~~~BY~~ ~~WRITTEN~~ ~~NOTICE~~ ~~GIVEN~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~ ~~THE~~
~~TERMINATION~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~
~~ON~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER~~ ~~VACATED~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNIT~~ ~~AND~~ ~~REMOVED~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~PERSONAL~~
~~UNIT;~~~~PROPERTY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 258

~~(II)~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER’S~~ ~~DEATH,~~~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMINATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~EFFECTIVE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~SUBSCRIBER’S~~ ~~DEATH.~~

~~(2)~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~TERMINATED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~SUBSCRIBER’S~~ ~~DEATH,~~~~ELECTION~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PAY~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~CONTRACTUAL~~
~~REFUND.~~~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEE~~

~~(C)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~PROVIDES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~
~~REFUNDABLE~~ ~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEE~~ ~~CONDITIONED~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REOCCUPANCY~~ ~~OR~~
~~SUBSCRIBER’S~~ ~~UNIT,~~~~RECONTRACTING~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ASSIGN~~ ~~THE~~
~~UNIT~~ ~~A~~ ~~SEQUENTIAL~~ ~~REFUND~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~TO~~ ~~DETERMINE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ORDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~REFUNDABLE~~
~~PAID.~~~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~BE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~A~~ ~~SEQUENTIAL~~ ~~REFUND~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~IS~~ ~~ASSIGNED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(1)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~ ~~RECORD:~~~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~SHALL~~

~~(I)~~ ~~ASSIGNED;~~~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~WAS~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~VACATED~~ ~~AND~~ ~~AVAILABLE~~ ~~UNITS~~ ~~AT~~ ~~THE~~
~~ASSIGNED.~~~~FACILITY~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~WAS~~

~~(D)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~EXCEPT~~ ~~(E)~~ ~~SECTION,~~~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~60~~~~BEGINNING~~ ~~DAYS~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EFFECTIVE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~TERMINATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~
~~AGREEMENT,~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER’S~~~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ESTATE~~
~~SHALL~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RIGHT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECEIVE~~ ~~A~~ ~~REFUND~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~EQUAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ANY~~
~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEE~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~LESS~~ ~~THE~~
~~ANY:~~~~AMOUNT~~ ~~OF~~

~~(I)~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER,~~~~UNPAID~~ ~~FEES~~ ~~OR~~ ~~CHARGES~~ ~~INCURRED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~FEES;~~~~INCLUDING~~ ~~MONTHLY~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~CHARITABLE~~ ~~ASSISTANCE~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~TO~~
~~SUBSCRIBER.~~~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~TERMINATES,~~~~A~~ ~~CONTINUING~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~THE~~
~~(1)~~~~BALANCE~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~
~~SUBSCRIBER’S~~~~PAYABLE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ESTATE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ORDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~(C)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~SEQUENTIAL~~ ~~REFUND~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~ASSIGNED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(E)~~ ~~NOTWITHSTANDING~~ ~~LAW,~~~~OTHER~~ ~~PROVISIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~SHALL~~
~~60~~~~PAY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BALANCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~CONTRACTUAL~~ ~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEE~~ ~~REFUND~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~DAYS~~
~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMINATION~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~IF~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMINATION~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~A~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER~~ ~~RESIDED~~
– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 258 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~UNIT~~ ~~AT~~ ~~A~~ ~~HIGHER~~ ~~LEVEL~~ ~~OF~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~THAN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LEVEL~~ ~~OF~~ ~~CARE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~
~~SUBSCRIBER~~ ~~RESIDED~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SUBSCRIBER~~ ~~INITIALLY~~ ~~RESIDED~~ ~~AT~~ ~~THE~~
~~FACILITY.~~

~~[(d)]~~ ~~(F)~~ This section does not prohibit a provider from requiring that a
subscriber’s unit be vacated before any contractual entrance fee refund is paid as a result
of the subscriber’s election to terminate a continuing care agreement.

~~(G)~~ (E) ~~EVERY~~ ~~6~~ ~~MONTHS,~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~SUBMIT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~INCLUDES,~~ ~~6~~ ~~MONTHS:~~~~A~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRIOR~~

~~(1)~~ ~~REFUNDS;~~~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~SATISFIED~~ ~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DOLLAR~~ ~~AMOUNT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~SATISFIED~~ ~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEE~~
~~REFUND;~~

~~(3)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OUTSTANDING~~ ~~SEQUENTIAL~~ ~~LIST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ENTRANCE~~ ~~FEE~~
~~REFUNDS,~~ ~~DUE;~~~~INCLUDING~~ ~~DOLLAR~~ ~~AMOUNTS~~

~~(4)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CURRENT~~ ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~UNITS~~ ~~AT~~ ~~A~~ ~~FACILITY~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~ARE~~
~~OCCUPIED;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(5)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AVERAGE~~ ~~LENGTH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~TIME~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVIDER~~ ~~TAKES~~ ~~TO~~
~~CONTRACT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~RECONTRACT~~ ~~UNITS~~

(1) IF AN ENTRANCE FEE REFUND IS CONDITIONED ON THE
SUBSCRIBER’SREOCCUPYING OF A UNIT AND THE UNIT HAS NOT BEEN REOCCUPIED
9 SUBSCRIBER’SWITHIN MONTHS OF THE DEATH OR THE DATE OF THE CONTRACT
TERMINATION, A PROVIDER SHALL SUBMIT A WRITTEN REPORT TO THE SUBSCRIBER
SUBSCRIBER’S STATING:OR THE BENEFICIARY

(I) REOCCUPIED;THAT THE UNIT HAS NOT BEEN AND

(II) THE EFFORTS THE PROVIDER HAS MADE TO REOCCUPY THE
UNIT.

(2) AFTER THE PROVIDER SUBMITTED THE REPORT REQUIRED
(1) SUBSECTION,UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE PROVIDER SHALL SUBMIT AN
SUBSCRIBER’SUPDATED WRITTEN REPORT TO THE SUBSCRIBER OR THE
6 SUBSCRIBER’SBENEFICIARY EVERY MONTHS UNTIL THE UNIT HAS BEEN
REOCCUPIED.

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 258

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall be construed to
apply only prospectively and may not be applied or interpreted to have any effect on or
application to any cause of action arising before the effective date of this Act.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 9 –