PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 924

Chapter 924

(House Bill 51)

AN ACT concerning

~~Maryland~~ ~~Pediatric~~ ~~Cancer~~ ~~Fund~~ ~~–~~ ~~Modifications~~
Public Health – Maryland Pediatric Cancer Fund and Commission

FOR the purpose of altering the use of the Maryland Pediatric Cancer Fund to require that
the Fund be used only for pediatric cancer research instead of only for pediatric
cancer research, prevention, and treatment and to allow funds from the Fund to be
used for administrative expenses; establishing the Pediatric Cancer Research
Commission to oversee the award of competitive grants from the Fund; and generally
relating to the Maryland Pediatric Cancer Fund and the Pediatric Cancer Research
Commission.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 20–120
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 20–121
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

20–120.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Fund” means the Maryland Pediatric Cancer Fund established under
this section.

(3) “Pediatric cancer research” includes research to develop and advance
the understanding of pediatric cancer and the techniques and modalities effective in the
prevention, cure, screening, and treatment of pediatric cancer.

(b) (1) There is a Maryland Pediatric Cancer Fund.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 924 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) The Fund consists of:

(i) Money appropriated in the State budget to the Fund; and

(ii) Any donations or other money from any other source accepted for
the benefit of the Fund.

(3) The Secretary shall administer the Fund.

(4) The Fund shall be used only for pediatric cancer research AND
EXPENSES[, treatment]prevention, and as provided in subsection (c)ADMINISTRATIVE
of this section.

(5) The Fund shall be maintained for the purposes stated in this section
and unspent portions of the Fund shall remain in the Fund and may not revert to the
General Fund of the State.

research[,(6) Money expended from the Fund for pediatric cancer
treatment]prevention, and is supplemental and is not intended to take the place of funding
research[,that would otherwise be appropriated to the Department for pediatric cancer
treatment].prevention, and

(7) All expenditures from the Fund shall be made only in accordance with
an appropriation approved by the General Assembly in the annual State budget or through
an approved budget amendment under §§ 7–209 and 7–210 of the State Finance and
Procurement Article.

(8) (i) For fiscal year 2023, the Governor shall include in the annual
budget bill an appropriation of $5,000,000 to the Fund.

(ii) If $5,000,000 is not included in the annual budget bill for fiscal
year 2023, then the Governor shall include in the annual budget bill for fiscal year 2024 an
appropriation of $5,000,000 to the Fund.

(I) ~~of:~~(c) (1) Each year, the Secretary may ~~distribute~~ ~~not~~ ~~more~~ ~~than~~ ~~5%~~

1. DISTRIBUTE the Fund to a promotionalFUNDS FROM
STATE–BASEDaccount TO BE ALLOCATED TO A CHILDHOOD CANCER ORGANIZATION
STATEto be used to promote further donations to the Fund AND TO EDUCATE THE
SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY ABOUT THE OPPORTUNITIES FOR CHILDHOOD CANCER
FUND;RESEARCH THROUGH THE AND

2. USE FUNDFUNDS FROM THE TO ADMINISTER THE
FUND, INCLUDING FOR STAFF AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH THE
COMMISSION § 20–121 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 924

(II) THE AMOUNTS DISTRIBUTED AND USED UNDER
(I) 5%SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH MAY NOT EXCEED A TOTAL OF OF THE
FUND.

(2) (i) After making the distribution allowed under paragraph (1) of
this subsection, the Secretary shall use the remainder of the Fund only to provide grants
to eligible physicians, hospitals, laboratories, educational institutions, and other
research[, treatment].organizations and persons to conduct pediatric cancer prevention, or

(ii) Money received from the grant program under this section may
not be used to pay for institutional overhead expenses, organizational expenses, or charges
research[, treatment]that are not directly related to pediatric cancer prevention, or or
expenses arising from community–based support services.

(d) (1) On or before August 31 each year, the Secretary shall submit a report
to the General Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, on
the administration of the Fund.

(2) The report required under this subsection shall include:

(i) A description of promotional efforts undertaken with money from
the Fund; and

(ii) A detailed accounting of the use of the Fund.

(e) The Secretary shall adopt regulations to implement a pediatric cancer grant
program under this section.

20–121.

(A) IN SECTION, “COMMISSION” PEDIATRIC CANCERTHIS MEANS THE
RESEARCH COMMISSION.

(B) THERE PEDIATRIC CANCER RESEARCH COMMISSION.IS A

(C) THE COMMISSIONPURPOSE OF THE IS TO OVERSEE THE AWARD OF
PEDIATRIC CANCER FUND,COMPETITIVE GRANTS FROM THE ESTABLISHED UNDER
§ 20–120 SUBTITLE, STATE.OF THIS TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ENTITIES IN THE

(D) THE COMMISSION OF:CONSISTS

(1) THE SECRETARY HEALTH, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OF OR THE
AND

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 924 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) THE GOVERNOR:FOLLOWING MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE

(I) TWO INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE ADULT SURVIVORS OF
PATIENTS,PEDIATRIC CANCER OR CAREGIVERS OF PEDIATRIC CANCER ~~FROM~~ ~~A~~ ~~LIST~~
AMERICAN~~SUBMITTED~~ ~~BY~~ WHO MAY BE IDENTIFIED IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
CHILDHOOD CANCER ORGANIZATION;

(II) ONE AMERICAN CHILDHOODREPRESENTATIVE OF THE
CANCER ORGANIZATION;

(III) ~~TWO~~ FOUR SCIENTISTS WITH EXPERTISE IN PEDIATRIC
~~UNIVERSITY~~ ~~MARYLAND;~~CANCER RESEARCH ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~TWO~~ ~~SCIENTISTS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PEDIATRIC~~ ~~CANCER~~
~~JOHNS~~ ~~HOPKINS~~ ~~UNIVERSITY;~~~~RESEARCH~~ ~~FROM~~

~~(V)~~ (IV) TWO ADVANCED PRACTICE REGISTERED NURSES
CARE;WHO HAVE EXPERIENCE IN PEDIATRIC CANCER AND

~~(VI)~~ (V) ~~ONE~~ THREE~~PHYSICIAN~~ PHYSICIANS WITH EXPERTISE
~~UNIVERSITY~~ ~~MARYLAND~~IN TREATING PEDIATRIC CANCER PATIENTS ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~MEDICAL~~ ~~SYSTEM;~~

~~(VII)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~PHYSICIAN~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~TREATING~~ ~~PEDIATRIC~~
~~JOHNS~~ ~~HOPKINS~~ ~~MEDICINE;~~~~CANCER~~ ~~PATIENTS~~ ~~FROM~~

~~(VIII)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~PHYSICIAN~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PEDIATRIC~~ ~~ONCOLOGY~~
~~LIFEBRIDGE~~ ~~HEALTH;~~~~FROM~~ ~~AND~~

~~(IX)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PEDIATRIC~~
~~NATIONAL~~ ~~CANCER~~ ~~INSTITUTE.~~~~ONCOLOGY~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~

(E) (1) THE 3 YEARS.TERM OF AN APPOINTED MEMBER IS

(2) THE COMMISSIONTERMS OF THE APPOINTED MEMBERS OF THE
ARE STAGGERED AS REQUIRED BY THE TERMS PROVIDED FOR MEMBERS OF THE
COMMISSION OCTOBER 1, 2024.ON

(3) IF A VACANCY OCCURS DURING THE TERM OF AN APPOINTED
MEMBER, GOVERNORTHE SHALL APPOINT A SUCCESSOR WHO SHALL SERVE UNTIL
EXPIRES.THE TERM

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 924

(4) AT TERM,THE END OF A A MEMBER MAY CONTINUE TO SERVE
QUALIFIES.ONLY UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND

(5) A MEMBER WHO IS APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN SERVES
ONLY FOR THE REST OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND
QUALIFIES.

(6) A MEMBER MAY NOT SERVE MORE THAN TWO CONSECUTIVE FULL
TERMS.

(F) EACH COMMISSION STATEMEMBER OF THE SHALL DISCLOSE TO THE
ETHICS COMMISSION WHETHER THE MEMBER IS EMPLOYED BY OR HAS A FINANCIAL
STATE–FUNDEDINTEREST IN AN ENTITY THAT MAY APPLY TO CONDUCT PEDIATRIC
RESEARCH.CANCER

(G) (1) THE GOVERNOR DUTY,MAY REMOVE A MEMBER FOR NEGLECT OF
INCOMPETENCE, MISCONDUCT, MALFEASANCE, MISFEASANCE, NONFEASANCE, OR
CAUSE.ANY OTHER SUFFICIENT

(2) THE GOVERNOR MAY NOT REMOVE A MEMBER FOR POLITICAL
PREFERENCE.PARTY

(H) (1) A MAJORITY OF THE FULL AUTHORIZED MEMBERSHIP OF THE
COMMISSION QUORUM.IS A

(2) THE COMMISSIONDECISION OF THE SHALL BE BY A MAJORITY OF
VOTING.THE QUORUM PRESENT AND

(I) THE COMMISSION YEAR,SHALL MEET AT LEAST TWICE A AT THE TIMES
DETERMINES.AND PLACES THAT IT

(J) A COMMISSION:MEMBER OF THE

(1) MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
COMMISSION; BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

(K) THE COMMISSION ANNUALLY SHALL ELECT A CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR
MEMBERS.FROM AMONG ITS

(L) THE COMMISSION SHALL:

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 924 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) DEVELOP CRITERIA, STANDARDS, AND REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR PEDIATRIC CANCER RESEARCH GRANTS FROM THE
PEDIATRIC CANCER FUND;

(2) ESTABLISH PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES TO BE USED IN THE
REVIEW, EVALUATION, RANKING, AND RATING OF THE RESEARCH GRANT
PROPOSALS;

(3) ~~REVIEW~~ DEVELOP CRITERIA AND A PROCESS FOR REVIEWING
GRANT APPLICATIONS TO ENSURE THAT EACH APPLICATION IS COMPLETE AND
CRITERIA, STANDARDS,SATISFIES THE AND REQUIREMENTS DEVELOPED BY THE
COMMISSION (1) SUBSECTION;UNDER ITEM OF THIS

(4) DEVELOP DISCLOSURE AND RECUSAL GUIDELINES TO BE
COMMISSIONFOLLOWED BY MEMBERS OF THE WHEN CONSIDERING GRANT
APPLICATIONS;

(5) ESTABLISH AWARDS;STANDARDS FOR THE OVERSIGHT OF AND

(6) CONDUCT RECIPIENTS.PROGRESS REVIEWS OF GRANT

(M) THE COMMISSION MAY CONSULT WITH EXPERTS IN PERFORMING ITS
DUTIES.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the terms of the initial
members of the Pediatric Cancer Research Commission shall expire as follows:

(1) four members in 2025;

(2) four members in 2026; and

(3) ~~five~~ four members in 2027.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 6 –