PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 363

Chapter 363

(House Bill 4)

AN ACT concerning

Institutions of Higher Education – Admissions Standards – Prohibition on
Consideration of Legacy Preference or Donor Preference

FOR the purpose of prohibiting certain institutions of higher education from considering a
legacy preference or donor preference as an eligible criterion for admissions
standards at the institution; and generally relating to admissions standards and
institutions of higher education.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section 10–101(a) and (h)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 26–901 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 9. Consideration of ~~Legacy~~
~~Preference~~ Preferences in the Admissions Process”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

10–101.

(a) In this division the following words have the meanings indicated.

(h) (1) “Institution of higher education” means an institution of postsecondary
education that generally limits enrollment to graduates of secondary schools, and awards
degrees at either the associate, baccalaureate, or graduate level.

(2) “Institution of higher education” includes public, private nonprofit, and
for–profit institutions of higher education.

SUBTITLE 9. CONSIDERATION ~~LEGACY~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~ PREFERENCESOF IN THE
ADMISSIONS PROCESS.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 363 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

26–901.

(A) (1) IN SECTION,THIS THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “DONOR PREFERENCE” MEANS A PREFERENCE GIVEN TO AN
APPLICANT TO AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION BY THE INSTITUTION BASED
APPLICANT’SON THE FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP TO A PERSON WHO PROVIDES
INSTITUTION.FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THE

(3) ~~“LEGACY~~ LEGACY PREFERENCE” MEANS A PREFERENCE GIVEN
TO AN APPLICANT TO AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION BY THE INSTITUTION
APPLICANT’SBASED ON THE FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP TO AN ALUM OF THE
INSTITUTION.

(B) THIS SECTION APPLIES TO AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN
STATE STATE FUNDS.THE THAT RECEIVES

(C) (1) AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION MAY NOT CONSIDER A
LEGACY PREFERENCE OR DONOR PREFERENCE AS AN ELIGIBLE CRITERION FOR
INSTITUTION.ADMISSION STANDARDS TO THE

(2) AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION MAY ASK APPLICANTS
TO PROVIDE INFORMATION ABOUT FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIPS TO ALUMS OF THE
DATA.INSTITUTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF COLLECTING

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 2 –