PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 419

Chapter 419

(House Bill 52)

AN ACT concerning

State Employees – Parental Bereavement Leave

FOR the purpose of providing that certain State employees are entitled to a certain amount
of parental bereavement leave with pay under certain circumstances; prohibiting
certain State entities from requiring certain State employees to use certain paid
leave under certain circumstances; and generally relating to parental bereavement
leave for State employees.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 9–1101
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 9–1109
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Personnel and Pensions

9–1101.

Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, this subtitle applies to all employees
in the State Personnel Management System, except temporary employees.

9–1109.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “CHILD” ADOPTED, BIOLOGICAL, CHILD,MEANS AN OR FOSTER A
STEPCHILD, WARD, 6OR A LEGAL WHO IS AT LEAST MONTHS OLD AND UNDER THE
~~21~~ 27 YEARS.AGE OF

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 419 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) “INFANT” ADOPTED, BIOLOGICAL, CHILD,MEANS AN OR FOSTER A
STEPCHILD, WARD, 6 MONTHS.OR A LEGAL WHO IS UNDER THE AGE OF

~~(3)~~ ~~(4)~~ ~~“PARENTAL~~ ~~LEAVE”~~~~BEREAVEMENT~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~LEAVE~~ ~~AN~~
~~USE:~~~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~IS~~ ~~ALLOWED~~ ~~TO~~

~~(I)~~ ~~EMPLOYEE’S~~ ~~CHILD;~~~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEATH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~STILLBIRTH.~~~~WHEN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~EXPERIENCES~~ ~~A~~

~~(4)~~ ~~(5)~~ ~~“STILLBIRTH”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEATH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~FETUS~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~A~~
~~20~~ ~~EMPLOYEE:~~~~GESTATION~~ ~~PERIOD~~ ~~OF~~ ~~WEEKS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AN~~

~~(I)~~ ~~FETUS;~~~~WHO~~ ~~WAS~~ ~~PREGNANT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~

~~(II)~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~IS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SPOUSE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~DOMESTIC~~ ~~PARTNER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~
~~FETUS;~~~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~WAS~~ ~~PREGNANT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(III)~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~INTENDED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ASSUME~~ ~~PARENTAL~~ ~~RESPONSIBILITIES~~
~~ALIVE.~~~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FETUS~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FETUS~~ ~~HAD~~ ~~BEEN~~ ~~BORN~~

(B) THIS TO:SECTION APPLIES

~~(1)~~ EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYEES,ALL INCLUDING TEMPORARY IN THE
EXECUTIVE, JUDICIAL, LEGISLATIVE STATE GOVERNMENT,AND BRANCHES OF
SYSTEM;INCLUDING ANY UNIT WITH AN INDEPENDENT PERSONNEL ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~EMPLOYEES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~INSTITUTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~HIGHER~~
~~EDUCATION,~~ ~~§~~ ~~2–308~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~AS~~ ~~DEFINED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

(C) AN EMPLOYEE SUBJECT TO THIS SECTION IS ENTITLED TO PARENTAL
PAY.BEREAVEMENT LEAVE WITH

(D) (1) SUBJECT ~~(2)~~ (3) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS AN
10 60EMPLOYEE MAY USE UP TO DAYS OF PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT LEAVE WITHIN
AFTER:DAYS

~~(I)~~ EMPLOYEE’S CHILD;THE DEATH OF THE ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~STILLBIRTH.~~~~THE~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~EXPERIENCES~~ ~~A~~

(2) SUBJECT (3) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS AN EMPLOYEE
60 60MAY USE UP TO DAYS OF PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT LEAVE WITHIN DAYS
AFTER:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 419

(I) STILLBIRTH;THE EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCES A OR

(II) EMPLOYEE’S INFANT.THE DEATH OF THE

~~(2)~~ (3) AN EMPLOYEE MAY USE PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
EMPLOYEE’SONLY AFTER NOTIFYING THE APPOINTING AUTHORITY OF THE
EMPLOYEE’S LEAVE.INTENTION TO USE PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT

~~(3)~~ (4) AN EMPLOYEE’S APPOINTING AUTHORITY MAY NOT
REQUIRE AN EMPLOYEE ENTITLED TO PARENTAL BEREAVEMENT LEAVE UNDER
(1) (2)~~PARAGRAPH~~ PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS SUBSECTION TO USE ANY OTHER
EMPLOYEE.PAID LEAVE AVAILABLE TO THE

(E) THE SECRETARY SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS GOVERNING PARENTAL
LEAVE.BEREAVEMENT

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 3 –