PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 651

Chapter 651

(House Bill 38)

AN ACT concerning

Baltimore City – ~~Off–Street~~ Motor Vehicle Off–Street Parking Requirements
Near Mass Transit Stations

FOR the purpose of prohibiting the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore City from adopting
or enforcing a local law that requires the creation of new motor vehicle off–street
parking for a ~~residential~~ development that includes residential use and that is
located within a certain distance of a present or planned MARC, Baltimore MTA
Light Rail, ~~or~~ Red Line, or Metro station; and generally relating to requirements for
motor vehicle off–street parking for residential developments in Baltimore City.

BY adding to
Article – Land Use
Section 10–104
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2012 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Land Use
Section 10–202
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2012 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Land Use

10–104.

(A) IN SECTION, “RED LINE”THIS MEANS A ~~RAIL~~ TRANSIT FACILITY ~~USING~~
~~VEHICLES,~~ MODE,~~ONE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MORE~~ REGARDLESS OF OPERATING ~~IN~~ ~~TANDEM~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~
AT–GRADE, ELEVATED,~~FIXED~~ ~~RAIL~~ IN A COMBINATION OF ~~AND~~ OR UNDERGROUND
BALTIMORE CITY BALTIMORE COUNTYCONFIGURATIONS THROUGH AND ALONG A
EAST–TO–WEST SECURITYGENERALLY ALIGNMENT BETWEEN THE TERMINUS OF
BOULEVARD JOHNS HOPKINS BAYVIEW MEDICAL CENTERON THE WEST AND ON
EAST, FIXED–ROUTETHE CONNECTING AS APPROPRIATE TO OTHER TRANSIT
SERVICES.

(B) NOTWITHSTANDING § 10–202 TITLE, MAYOR CITYOF THIS THE AND
COUNCIL BALTIMORE CITYOF MAY NOT ADOPT OR ENFORCE A LOCAL LAW THAT
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 651 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

OFF–STREETREQUIRES THE CREATION OF NEW MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING FOR A
~~RESIDENTIAL~~ DEVELOPMENT THAT INCLUDES RESIDENTIAL USE AND THAT IS
0.25–MILE PLANNED:LOCATED WITHIN A RADIUS OF A PRESENT OR

(1) MARC STATION;

(2) BALTIMORE MTA LIGHT RAIL STATION; ~~OR~~

(3) RED LINE STATION, MODE;REGARDLESS OF TRANSIT OR

(4) METRO STATION.

10–202.

To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community, the Mayor and
City Council of Baltimore City may regulate:

(1) the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other structures;

(2) the percentage of a lot that may be occupied;

(3) off–street parking;

(4) the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces;

(5) population density; and

(6) the location and use of buildings, signs, structures, and land.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 2 –