PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 827

Chapter 827

(House Bill 90)

AN ACT concerning

Insurance – Hearing Representation

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Insurance Commissioner to allow certain
business entities that are small employers to be represented by certain authorized
individuals rather than an attorney in certain hearings held by the Commissioner;
and generally relating to insurance and hearing representation.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Insurance
Section 2–213
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2017 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Insurance

2–213.

(a) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, all hearings shall be
open to the public in accordance with § 8–505 of the State Government Article.

(2) A hearing held by the Commissioner that relates to a filing under Title
11 of this article is not required to be open to the public.

(3) A hearing held by the Commissioner to determine whether an insurer
is being operated in a hazardous manner that could result in its impairment is not required
to be open to the public if:

(i) the insurer requests that the hearing not be a public hearing; and

(ii) the Commissioner determines that it is not in the interest of the
public to hold a public hearing.

(4) A hearing held by the Commissioner to evaluate the financial condition
of an insurer under the risk based capital standards set out in Title 4, Subtitle 3 of this
article is not required to be open to the public.

(5) A hearing shall be considered open to the public if a member of the
public may observe the hearing virtually through an electronic media platform.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 827 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) (1) The Commissioner shall allow any party to a hearing to:

[(2)] (3)(i) subject to paragraph of this subsection, appear in
person;

(ii) be represented:

[or]1. by counsel;

2. in the case of an insurer, by a designee of the insurer who:

A. is employed by the insurer in claims, underwriting, or as
otherwise provided by the Commissioner; and

B. has been given the authority by the insurer to resolve all
issues involved in the hearing; OR

3. BY A REPRESENTATIVE AUTHORIZED UNDER
(2) SUBSECTION;PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(iii) be present while evidence is given;

(iv) have a reasonable opportunity to inspect all documentary
evidence and to examine witnesses; and

(v) present evidence.

(I) IN PARAGRAPH, “BUSINESS ENTITY”(2) THIS MEANS A
CORPORATION, PARTNERSHIP, COMPANY,LIMITED LIABILITY OR SOLE
PROPRIETORSHIP.

(II) SUBJECT (III), (IV), (V), (VI)TO SUBPARAGRAPHS AND OF
PARAGRAPH,THIS A BUSINESS ENTITY MAY AUTHORIZE THE FOLLOWING TO
SECTION:REPRESENT IT IN A HEARING UNDER THIS

1. CORPORATION,FOR A AN OFFICER OF THE
CORPORATION OR AN EMPLOYEE DESIGNATED BY AN OFFICER OF THE
CORPORATION;

2. PARTNERSHIP,FOR A A PARTNER IN THE
PARTNER;PARTNERSHIP OR AN EMPLOYEE DESIGNATED BY A

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 827

3. COMPANY,FOR A LIMITED LIABILITY A MEMBER OF
THE LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY OR AN EMPLOYEE DESIGNATED BY A MEMBER OF
COMPANY;THE LIMITED LIABILITY OR

4. PROPRIETORSHIP,FOR A SOLE AN EMPLOYEE
PROPRIETORSHIP.DESIGNATED BY THE OWNER OF THE SOLE

(III) THE BUSINESS ENTITY MUST PROVIDE PROOF TO THE
COMMISSIONER “SMALL EMPLOYER”THAT IT MEETS THE DEFINITION OF A UNDER
§ 31–101 ARTICLE.OF THIS

(IV) THE HEARING MAY NOT BE ~~NOT~~ BASED ON AN ASSIGNMENT
ENTITY.OF THE CLAIM OF ANOTHER TO THE BUSINESS

(V) IN EMPLOYEE, EMPLOYEE:THE CASE OF A DESIGNATED THE

1. COMMISSIONERMUST PROVIDE TO THE A POWER OF
ATTORNEY SWORN TO BY THE EMPLOYER THAT CERTIFIES THAT THE DESIGNATED
EMPLOYEE IS AN AUTHORIZED AGENT OF THE BUSINESS ENTITY AND MAY BIND THE
COMMISSIONER;BUSINESS ENTITY ON MATTERS PENDING BEFORE THE AND

2. MAY NOT BE AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS DISBARRED OR
STATE.SUSPENDED AS A LAWYER IN ANY

(VI) THE WITH, HIRE,BUSINESS ENTITY MAY NOT CONTRACT OR
SERVICES.EMPLOY ANOTHER BUSINESS ENTITY TO PROVIDE APPEARANCE

(3) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the Commissioner
may direct that a hearing be held virtually.

(ii) The Commissioner may not require a party to participate
virtually in a hearing if the party demonstrates that it is unable to exercise any of the rights
under paragraph (1)(ii) through (v) of this subsection by appearing virtually.

(iii) The Commissioner shall make available to the parties to a
virtual hearing a space within the office of the Maryland Insurance Administration with
access to the equipment necessary to allow the parties to participate in the virtual hearing.

[(3)] (4) On request of a party, the Commissioner shall issue subpoenas
to compel attendance of witnesses or production of evidence on behalf of the party.

(c) The Commissioner shall allow any person that was not an original party to a
hearing to become a party by intervention if:

(1) the intervention is timely; and
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 827 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) the financial interests of the person will be directly and immediately
affected by an order of the Commissioner resulting from the hearing.

(d) Formal rules of pleading or evidence need not be observed at a hearing.

(e) (1) On timely written request by a party to a hearing, the Commissioner
shall have a full stenographic record of the proceedings made by a competent reporter at
the expense of that party.

(2) If the stenographic record is transcribed, a copy shall be given on
request to any other party to the hearing at the expense of that party.

(3) If the stenographic record is not made or transcribed, the Commissioner
shall prepare an adequate record of the evidence and proceedings.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 4 –