PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 212

Chapter 212

(House Bill 7)

AN ACT concerning

Housing Innovation Pilot Program and Housing Innovation Fund –
Establishment
(Housing Innovation Pilot Program Act of 2024)

FOR the purpose of establishing the Housing Innovation Pilot Program in the Department
of Housing and Community Development to provide funds for certain mixed–income,
cross–subsidized housing; establishing the Housing Innovation Fund as a special,
nonlapsing fund; and generally relating to the Housing Innovation Pilot Program.

BY adding to
Article – Housing and Community Development
Section 4–512; and 4–3001 through ~~4–3007~~ 4–3005 to be under the new subtitle
“Subtitle 30. Housing Innovation Pilot Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Housing and Community Development

4–512.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” HOUSING INNOVATION FUND.THIS MEANS THE

(B) THERE HOUSING INNOVATION FUND.IS A

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE LOANS FOR LOCAL HOUSING
MIXED–INCOME,AUTHORITIES AND COUNTY GOVERNMENTS TO DEVELOP
CROSS–SUBSIDIZED HOUSING.

(D) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(F) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 212 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE AND

(2) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(G) (1) SUBJECT (2)TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION AND
(J) SECTION, FUNDSUBSECTION OF THIS THE MAY BE USED ONLY TO PROVIDE
LOW– NO–INTERESTOR LOANS TO LOCAL HOUSING AUTHORITIES OR TO COUNTY
HOUSINGGOVERNMENTS PARTNERING WITH HOUSING DEVELOPERS THROUGH THE
INNOVATION PILOT PROGRAM SUBTITLE 30 TITLE.IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

(2) THE FUND COUNTY,MAY BE USED FOR PROJECTS WHERE A IN
DEVELOPER,CONJUNCTION WITH A LOCAL HOUSING AUTHORITY OR A HOUSING
HOUSING.ACQUIRES EXISTING PRIVATE SECTOR

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
GENERAL FUND STATE.THE OF THE

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(J) (1) (I) FOR 2025, HOUSINGFISCAL YEAR AN ALLOCATION TO THE
INNOVATION FUND JULY 1, 2026,SHALL BE COMMITTED TO PROJECTS BEFORE
SUBJECT TO APPLICANTS BEING AFFORDED A REASONABLE PERIOD OF TIME TO
APPLICATION.COMPLETE THE

(II) FOR 2026FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR
THEREAFTER, HOUSING INNOVATION FUNDAN ALLOCATION TO THE IN A FISCAL
YEAR,YEAR SHALL BE COMMITTED TO PROJECTS BEFORE THE END OF THAT FISCAL
SUBJECT TO APPLICANTS BEING AFFORDED A REASONABLE PERIOD OF TIME TO
APPLICATION.COMPLETE THE

(2) IF HOUSING INNOVATIONAN ALLOCATION OF FUNDS TO THE
FUND (1)UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION HAS NOT BEEN COMMITTED TO
ALLOCATED,PROJECTS BEFORE THE END OF THE FISCAL YEAR WHEN THEY WERE
THE FUNDS SHALL BE ELIGIBLE FOR USE IN SUPPORT OF PROJECTS THAT APPLY TO
RENTAL HOUSING ~~WORKS~~ ~~FUND~~ PROGRAM SUBTITLE 4THE ESTABLISHED UNDER
TITLE.OF THIS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 212

SUBTITLE 30. HOUSING INNOVATION PILOT PROGRAM.

4–3001.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “AUTHORITY” § 12–101 ARTICLE.HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THIS

~~(B)~~ (C) “FUND” HOUSING INNOVATION FUND.MEANS THE

~~(C)~~ (D) “HOUSING PROJECT”INNOVATION MEANS A PROJECT TO
MIXED–INCOME, CROSS–SUBSIDIZED §PROVIDE HOUSING THAT QUALIFIES UNDER
4–3003 SUBTITLE.OF THIS

~~(D)~~ (E) “PROGRAM” HOUSING INNOVATION PILOTMEANS THE
PROGRAM.

~~(E)~~ (F) “PUBLIC OWNERSHIP” ~~STATE~~MEANS THAT THE ~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~POLITICAL~~
~~STATE~~~~SUBDIVISION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~POSSESSES~~ ~~MAJORITY~~ ~~OWNERSHIP~~ ~~OR~~ ~~CONTROL~~
AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THE STATE IN WHICH THE PROJECT
CONTROL.IS LOCATED POSSESSES MAJORITY OWNERSHIP OR

4–3002.

(A) THERE HOUSING INNOVATION PILOT PROGRAM.IS A

(B) THE PROGRAM ARE:PURPOSES OF THE

(1) STATE’STO CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE PUBLIC HOUSING
AUTHORITIES AND COUNTY GOVERNMENTS TO INCREASE THE VOLUME OF HOUSING
PRODUCTION; AND

(2) TO ~~INCENTIVIZE~~ ~~HOUSING~~ ~~AUTHORITIES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~INCREASE~~
~~STATE~~~~OPPORTUNITIES~~ ~~BY~~ ~~PROVIDING~~ ~~MATCHING~~ ~~FUNDS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~HOUSING~~
~~INNOVATION~~ ~~PROJECTS~~ ~~FUNDED~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~REVOLVING~~ ~~LOAN~~ ~~FUNDS~~
REWARD COUNTIES PURSUING INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS TO THE PROBLEM OF
SCARCITY.HOUSING

(C) THE PROGRAM FUND.SHALL BE OPERATED WITH MONEY IN THE

4–3003.

(A) A IF:PROJECT QUALIFIES AS A HOUSING INNOVATION PROJECT

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 212 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(1)~~ WHICH:IT PROVIDES NEW HOUSING IN

~~(I)~~ (1) 20%AT LEAST OF THE UNITS ARE SET ASIDE FOR
50%HOUSEHOLDS WITH A GROSS ANNUAL INCOME OF NOT MORE THAN OF THE AREA
SIZE;MEDIAN INCOME FOR A HOUSEHOLD OF LIKE ~~AND~~ OR

~~(II)~~ (2) 40%AT LEAST OF THE UNITS ARE SET ASIDE FOR
60%HOUSEHOLDS WITH A GROSS ANNUAL INCOME OF NOT MORE THAN OF THE AREA
SIZE;.MEDIAN INCOME FOR A HOUSEHOLD OF LIKE

(B) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PRIORITIZE FUNDING FOR PROJECTS THAT
GUIDELINES:BEST MEET THE FOLLOWING

(1) LOW–INCOMETHE PROJECT DOES NOT USE HOUSING TAX CREDIT
TAX–EXEMPT CAP;EQUITY OR VOLUME

(2) SET–ASIDES ~~(1)~~THE AFFORDABLE REQUIRED UNDER ~~ITEM~~
(A)SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION REMAIN RESTRICTED AT ELECTED LEVELS FOR
99 YEARS;AT LEAST

(3) OWNERSHIP;THE PROJECT REMAINS IN PUBLIC AND

(4) THE PROJECT INCLUDES A COMMITMENT TO PREVAILING WAGE
REQUIREMENTS.

4–3004.

~~BEFORE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~FUNDS,~~~~DRAWING~~ ~~DOWN~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~A~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~HOUSING~~
~~MUST:~~~~AUTHORITY~~

~~(1)~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~PROVIDE~~ ~~EVIDENCE~~ ~~SATISFACTORY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THAT~~
~~PROGRAM~~~~THE~~ ~~FUNDS~~ ~~WILL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~MATCHED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~HOUSING~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~
~~DOLLAR–FOR–DOLLAR~~ ~~BASIS;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SECRETARY.~~~~MEET~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~CRITERIA~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~

~~4–3005.~~

(A) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(1) COORDINATE WITH LOCAL HOUSING AUTHORITIES AND COUNTY
RESOURCES,GOVERNMENTS TO ENSURE ACCESS TO OTHER FINANCIAL INCLUDING
PRODUCTS;SENIOR DEBT ~~AND~~

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 212

(2) DEVELOP NEW RESOURCES IN SUPPORT OF STATEWIDE HOUSING
PRODUCTION;

(3) PROGRAM;SOLICIT APPLICANTS FOR THE AND

(4) (B) SECTION,SUBJECT TO SUBSECTION OF THIS SELECT THREE
PROGRAMPROJECTS TO RECEIVE ASSISTANCE FROM THE EACH IN A DIFFERENT
JURISDICTION.

(B) THE DEPARTMENT MAY SELECT FEWER THAN THREE PROJECTS TO
APPLICANTS.FUND IF THERE IS AN INSUFFICIENT NUMBER OF ELIGIBLE

~~4–3006.~~ 4–3005.

~~(A)~~ ~~A~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~HOUSING~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~A~~
~~DOLLAR–FOR–DOLLAR~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~MATCH~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~FUNDS~~ ~~AWARDED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~HOUSING~~
~~SUBTITLE.~~~~INNOVATION~~ ~~PROJECTS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(B)~~ (A) (1) IN PROGRAM, DEPARTMENTADMINISTERING THE THE
SHALL TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION THE NEED FOR INCREASED DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITIES.CAPACITY WITHIN LOCAL HOUSING

(2) THE DEPARTMENT MAY NOT CONDITION THE AWARD OF FUNDING
PROGRAM DEPARTMENT.FROM THE ON THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS BY THE

(B) (1) FOR 2026 2029,EACH OF FISCAL YEARS THROUGH THE
GOVERNOR ~~SHALL~~ MAY INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL OPERATING OR CAPITAL BUDGET
$5,000,000 FUND.BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF TO THE

(2) AN (1)APPROPRIATION UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
~~RENTAL~~ ~~HOUSING~~ ~~WORKS~~MAY BE ALLOCATED USING FUNDING FOR RENTAL
SUBTITLE 4HOUSING PROJECTS ADMINISTERED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
TITLE.

~~4–3007.~~

~~IN~~ ~~PROGRAM,~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~ADMINISTERING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PRIORITIZE~~
~~LOW–INCOME~~~~FUNDING~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~PROJECTS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~DO~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~USE~~ ~~HOUSING~~ ~~TAX~~ ~~CREDIT~~
~~TAX–EXEMPT~~ ~~CAP.~~~~EQUITY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~VOLUME~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 5 years and, at the end of June 30, 2029,

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 212 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and
of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 6 –