PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 85

Chapter 85

(House Bill 117)

AN ACT concerning

Department of Natural Resources – Maryland Geological Survey Fund –
Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Maryland Geological Survey Fund as a special,
nonlapsing fund in the Department of Natural Resources; requiring interest
earnings of the Fund to be credited to the Fund; and generally relating to the
Maryland Geological Survey Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 1–103(b)(2) and 2–202
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 2–101
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Natural Resources
Section 2–205
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)189. and 190.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)191.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 85 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

1–103.

(b) (2) (i) Unless otherwise authorized by statute, the Secretary may use
money in a fund or account created under this article for administrative expenses directly
relating to the purposes of the Fund or account up to an amount calculated under a
generally accepted methodology for determining indirect costs.

(ii) The Secretary shall submit any changes to the methodology used
under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph for review and comment to the House
Appropriations Committee and the Senate Budget and Taxation Committee within 45 days
before implementing the methodology.

2–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Commission” means Commission of the Maryland Geological Survey.

(c) “Department” means Department of Natural Resources.

“FUND” MARYLAND GEOLOGICAL SURVEY FUND(d) MEANS THE
§ 2–205 TITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(E) “Paleontology” means the branch of geology that deals with prehistoric forms
of life through the study of plant and animal fossils.

[(e)] (F) “Secretary” means Secretary of Natural Resources.

[(f)] (G) “Survey” means Maryland Geological Survey.

2–202.

The Survey shall:

(1) Conduct topographic, geologic, hydrographic, and geophysical surveys;

(2) Prepare topographic, geologic, and other types of maps to meet specific
needs;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 85

(3) Prepare reports on the extent and character of the State’s geology,
mineral, and water resources; and

(4) Periodically assess the paleontological resources of the State and
coordinate the assessment with interested persons and public agencies.

2–205.

(A) THERE MARYLAND GEOLOGICAL SURVEY FUNDIS A IN THE
DEPARTMENT.

(B) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO FINANCE THE DIRECT AND INDIRECT
SUBTITLE, LONG–TERMCOSTS OF ADMINISTERING THIS INCLUDING BUDGETING
SURVEY PROJECTS, PROCUREMENTS,AND PLANNING FOR AND EQUIPMENT
PURCHASES.

(C) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) MONEY STATE FUND;APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) INTEREST EARNINGS; AND

(3) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(F) THE FUND FOR:MAY BE USED ONLY

(1) COVERING SURVEY;THE COSTS OF THE OPERATION OF THE

(2) PURCHASING AND MAINTAINING EQUIPMENT FOR USE BY THE
DEPARTMENT SURVEY;OR THE

(3) FUNDING PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN AND OVERSEEN BY THE
SURVEY;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 85 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) ADMINISTERING SUBTITLE;THIS AND

(5) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES CALCULATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
§ 1–103(B)(2) ARTICLE.OF THIS

(G) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(H) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]189. the Teacher Retention and Development Fund;

Fund;190. the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant AND

191. MARYLAND GEOLOGICAL SURVEY FUND.THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.

– 4 –