PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 498

Chapter 498

(House Bill 165)

AN ACT concerning

Local Government – Annual Audit Reporting Requirements – Alterations

FOR the purpose of requiring a certain amount of State aid to be discontinued if a county,
municipality, or special taxing district does not submit a certain audit report within
a certain period of time after the deadline for the report, subject to a certain
condition; and generally relating to local government reporting requirements.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Local Government
Section 16–304
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Local Government
Section 16–306
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Local Government

16–304.

(a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, on or before
October 31 after the close of its fiscal year, each county, municipality, and special taxing
district shall file with the Department of Legislative Services a financial report for that
fiscal year.

(2) (i) A county, municipality, or special taxing district with a
population of over 400,000 may file its financial report on or before December 31 after the
close of its fiscal year.

(ii) Unless subparagraph (i) of this paragraph applies, Howard
County may file its financial report on or before November 30 after the close of its fiscal
year.

(iii) Allegany County, Calvert County, Caroline County, Charles
County, Frederick County, Garrett County, Queen Anne’s County, St. Mary’s County,
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 498 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Somerset County, Talbot County, and Wicomico County may file the county’s financial
report on or before December 31 after the close of the county’s fiscal year.

(b) The financial report required under subsection (a) of this section shall be:

(1) prepared on the form established by the Department of Legislative
Services; and

(2) verified by the chief executive officer of the county, municipality, or
special taxing district.

(c) If a county, municipality, or special taxing district does not comply with
subsection (a) of this section, the Comptroller, on notice from the Executive Director of the
Department of Legislative Services, may order the discontinuance of all money, grants, or
State aid that the county, municipality, or special taxing district is entitled to receive under
State law, including money from:

(1) the income tax;

(2) the tax on racing;

(3) the recordation tax;

(4) the admissions and amusement tax; and

(5) the license tax.

16–306.

(a) The county, municipality, or special taxing district shall report the results of
the audit required under § 16–305 of this subtitle to the Legislative Auditor:

(1) on the form and in the manner that the Legislative Auditor requires;
and

(2) on or before the date the financial report of the county, municipality, or
special taxing district must be filed under § 16–304(a) of this subtitle.

(b) An audit report filed by a county, municipality, or special taxing district with
the Legislative Auditor shall include financial statements of the county, municipality, or
special taxing district that are:

(1) prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
and

(2) audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 498

(c) An audit report filed with the Legislative Auditor is a public record.

[If] EXCEPT (E) SECTION,(d) aAS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS IF
county, municipality, or special taxing district does not comply with subsection (a) or (b) of
this section, the Comptroller, on notice from the Executive Director of the Department of
Legislative Services, may order the discontinuance of all money, grants, or State aid that
the county, municipality, or special taxing district is entitled to receive under State law
that are distributed by the Comptroller, the clerks of the court, or any other unit of State
government.

(E) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION, COUNTY,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS IF A
MUNICIPALITY, OR SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT DOES NOT COMPLY WITH SUBSECTION
(A) (B) ~~1~~ ~~3~~ 2OR OF THIS SECTION WITHIN CALENDAR ~~YEAR~~ YEARS AFTER THE
(A)(2) SECTION, EXECUTIVEDEADLINE DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
DIRECTOR DEPARTMENT LEGISLATIVE SERVICESOF THE OF SHALL NOTIFY THE
COMPTROLLER COMPTROLLERAND THE SHALL ORDER THE DISCONTINUANCE OF
20% STATE ~~AID,~~OF ALL AID FOR ~~POLICE~~ THE CURRENT FISCAL YEAR FOR HIGHWAY
GRANTS,USER REVENUES AND DISPARITY ~~AND~~ ~~DISPARITY~~ ~~GRANTS~~ THAT THE
COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY, OR SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT IS OTHERWISE ENTITLED TO
STATE COMPTROLLER,RECEIVE UNDER LAW THAT IS DISTRIBUTED BY THE THE
COURT, STATE GOVERNMENT.CLERKS OF THE OR ANY OTHER UNIT OF

(2) (I) A (1)DISCONTINUANCE OF FUNDS UNDER PARAGRAPH OF
COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY,THIS SUBSECTION SHALL REMAIN IN EFFECT FOR A OR
COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY,SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT UNTIL THE OR SPECIAL TAXING
SECTION.DISTRICT SUBMITS THE AUDIT REPORT REQUIRED UNDER THIS

(II) 1. SUBJECT 2TO SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBPARAGRAPH, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DEPARTMENTTHE OF THE OF
LEGISLATIVE SERVICES COMPTROLLERSHALL NOTIFY THE AND THE
COMPTROLLER SHALL ORDER THE ~~CONTINUANCE~~ REINSTATEMENT OF THE FUNDS
(1)DISCONTINUED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION PROMPTLY AFTER THE
COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY, OR SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT SUBMITS THE AUDIT
SECTION.REPORT REQUIRED UNDER THIS

2. A. IF A ~~CONTINUANCE~~ REINSTATEMENT OF FUNDS
1 SUBPARAGRAPH,IS ORDERED UNDER SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS ONLY THE
RELEASED.DISCONTINUED FUNDS FOR THE CURRENT FISCAL YEAR SHALL BE

B. ~~FOR~~ IF COUNTY,~~ANY~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHICH~~ A
MUNICIPALITY, OR SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT FAILED TO SUBMIT THE AUDIT
REPORT REQUIRED UNDER THIS SECTION IN THE SAME FISCAL YEAR IN WHICH IT
DUE,WAS THE DISCONTINUED FUNDS FOR THAT FISCAL YEAR SHALL REVERT TO
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 498 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

GENERAL FUND STATETHE OF THE FOR DISCONTINUED DISPARITY GRANTS AND TO
TRANSPORTATION TRUST FUNDTHE FOR DISCONTINUED HIGHWAY USER
REVENUES.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall apply beginning
with the fiscal year 2024 audits that are required to be submitted under § 16–306 of the
Local Government Article, enacted by Section 1 of this Act.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
July 1, 2025.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 4 –