PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 914

Chapter 914

(House Bill 125)

AN ACT concerning

Courts – Military Records – Recordation and Inspection

FOR the purpose of altering certain provisions of law relating to the recordation and
inspection of certain military records kept by the clerk of a circuit court; and
generally relating to recordation and inspection of military records.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 2–207
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

2–207.

(a) For purposes of this section, “person in interest” has the meaning stated in §
4–101(g) of the General Provisions Article.

(b) The clerk of the circuit court of each county shall keep a book OR
and record and index in the book theELECTRONIC RECORD OR ELECTRONIC RECORD
discharge papers of any person who:

(1) At any time has served in the ~~armed~~ ~~forces~~ ofUNIFORMED SERVICES
the United States; and

(2) Presents the discharge papers of the person for recording.

(c) A clerk may not charge a fee for recording or indexing discharge papers.

(d) The record kept by the clerk, or a certified copy of the record, is admissible in
evidence in any court in the State.

~~[A]~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(2)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~(e) (1) clerk~~TO~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~A~~
shall deny inspection of the book RECORD, and the record and index inOR ELECTRONIC
the book RECORD, described in this section except:OR ELECTRONIC

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 914 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) To a party in a civil, administrative, or criminal proceeding in a
federal or state court or government agency, or the party’s attorney, who presents evidence
satisfactory to the clerk that the inspection is related to admitting the record or a certified
copy of the record in evidence in the proceeding;

(ii) To a person in interest;

(iii) In accordance with a subpoena or court order; or

1. [to(iv) ~~For~~ ~~good~~ ~~cause~~ ~~shown,~~ a relative of the person who is
papers,] IFthe subject of the discharge ~~if~~ the request for inspection is made at least 70
recording;years after the discharge papers were presented for AND

2. IF SOCIAL SECURITYTHE CLERK HAS REDACTED THE
NUMBER OF THE PERSON IN INTEREST FROM ANY PORTION OF THE BOOK OR
RECORD.ELECTRONIC

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~ ~~SOCIAL~~ ~~SECURITY~~~~CLERK~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REDACT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~NUMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~
~~RECORD,~~~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~PORTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BOOK~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ELECTRONIC~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ANY~~
~~SOCIAL~~~~RECORD~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INDEX~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BOOK~~ ~~OR~~ ~~ELECTRONIC~~ ~~RECORD~~ ~~IN~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~THE~~
~~SECURITY~~ ~~APPEARS.~~~~NUMBER~~

~~[(2)]~~ ~~(3)~~ A clerk may provide a certified copy of a record described in this
section only:

(i) To a party in a civil, administrative, or criminal proceeding in a
federal or state court or government agency, or the party’s attorney, who presents evidence
satisfactory to the clerk that the certified copy is for the purpose of admission in evidence
in the proceeding;

(ii) To a person in interest;

(iii) In accordance with a subpoena or court order; or

TO(iv) ~~For~~ ~~good~~ ~~cause~~ ~~shown,~~ ~~to~~ a relative of the person who is the
subject of the discharge papers, if the request for a certified copy is made at least 70 years
after the discharge papers were presented for recording.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –