PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 83

Chapter 83

(House Bill 109)

AN ACT concerning

Natural Resources – Submerged Aquatic Vegetation – Alteration or Removal
Requirements

FOR the purpose of authorizing certain persons to alter certain submerged aquatic
vegetation in a certain manner and in accordance with certain requirements;
authorizing a public utility company or telecommunications carrier to alter certain
submerged aquatic vegetation in a certain manner and in accordance with certain
requirements; altering certain requirements related to the alteration or removal of
certain submerged aquatic vegetation; and generally relating to submerged aquatic
vegetation in the tidal waters of the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 4–101(a) and (s)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 4–213
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

4–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(s) “Tidal water” means water below a point where the tide ebbs and flows.

4–213.

(a) In this section, “submerged aquatic vegetation” means a vascular or
nonvascular hydrophyte, which is rooted or unrooted, that lies entirely beneath the surface
of the water, except for flowering parts in some species.

(b) This section does not apply to activities involved in:
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 83 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) The harvesting of fish, shellfish, or crabs; or

(2) The construction, operation, and maintenance of agricultural drainage
channels.

TRIM,(c) Except as provided in this section, before a person may harvest, cut, or
otherwise remove or eradicate submerged aquatic vegetation from any land under the tidal
waters of the State below the mean high tide, the person shall submit to the Department
for approval a description of:

(1) Why the removal of submerged aquatic vegetation isALTERATION OR
necessary;

(2) The proposed method of removal;ALTERATION OR

(3) A plan showing the site at which the activity is proposed; and

(4) The extent of submerged aquatic vegetation to be ALTERED OR
removed.

(d) (1) (i) To allow ample access to their property from a navigable channel,
[Chesapeake tributaries]a person who owns or rents a pier, dock, or ramp on the Bay or its
STATE [harvest, eradicate]may cut, or otherwise remove orTIDAL WATERS OF THE TRIM
[60] 20submerged aquatic vegetation in a strip up to feet wide extending from theOR CUT
pier, dock, or ramp to the navigable channel without the approval of the Department.

[Chesapeake(ii) A person who owns or rents any marina on the Bay
tributaries] STATE [harvest,or its or the agent of the person mayTIDAL WATERS OF THE
eradicate]cut, or otherwise remove or submerged aquatic vegetation in aTRIM OR CUT
[60] 20strip up to feet wide extending from each individual boat slip to the common points
of ingress and egress of the navigable channels servicing the marina without the approval
of the Department.

1. [A] EXCEPT 2(iii) AS PROVIDED IN SUBSUBPARAGRAPH
SUBPARAGRAPH, public utility company or telecommunications carrier mayOF THIS A
TRIM, harvest, cut, or otherwise remove or eradicate submerged aquatic vegetation in a
[60] 20strip up to feet wide in order to maintain utility crossings in the waters of the State
[However, there]without the approval of the Department.

2. THERE [60] 20is no limitation to a foot wide strip for a
utility company or telecommunications carrier when:

[1.] A. Performing an emergency investigation; or

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 83

[2.] B. Performing repair work.

[Before] NOTWITHSTANDING (1)(2) PARAGRAPH OF THIS
TRIMS,SUBSECTION, a person harvests, cuts, or otherwise removes or eradicatesBEFORE
[is encouraged]submerged aquatic vegetation under this subsection, the person SHALL:

[To contact] CONTACT(i) the Department for information on best
[and]harvesting methods;

[To use] USE(ii) best harvesting methods; AND

(III) PROVIDE DEPARTMENT THE:THE WITH

1. LOCATION OF THE SUBMERGED AQUATIC
REMOVED;VEGETATION THAT WILL BE ALTERED OR AND

2. DATE ON WHICH THE ALTERATION OR REMOVAL WILL
OCCUR.

(3) (i) This paragraph does not apply to:

1. Any person who has a national pollution discharge
elimination system permit; or

2. Any publicly or privately owned sewage treatment plant.

TRIM,(ii) A person may not use any chemical to harvest, cut, or
otherwise remove or eradicate submerged aquatic vegetation under this subsection.

(e) (1) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the Department
may authorize or prohibit the removal or eradication of any species of submerged aquatic
vegetation or combination thereof for any purpose, including facilitation of boating access.

(2) If a plan is approved, the Department may prescribe the time, method,
and extent of the removal or eradication TO:

[To control] CONTROL(i) the effect of the removal or eradication
on water quality; or

[To protect] PROTECT(ii) the growth and proliferation of fish and
aquatic grasses.

(1)(f) The Secretary may adopt regulations to administer this section.

(2) As part of the regulations, the Secretary may authorize specific

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 83 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

categories of removal of submerged aquatic vegetation.

TRIM,(g) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person may
harvest, cut, or otherwise remove or eradicate submerged aquatic vegetation from any land
under the tidal waters of the State below mean high tide only in accordance with a plan
approved by the Department.

(2) The plan under this subsection shall include the following
requirements:

(i) The name, address, and telephone number of the person making
the request;

(ii) A written description by the person making the request of the
reasons why it is necessary to remove the submerged aquatic vegetation;ALTER OR

(iii) The proposed method to remove the submergedALTER OR
aquatic vegetation; and

(iv) A diagram showing the location and extent of the submerged
aquatic vegetation that is proposed to be removed.ALTERED OR

(h) The authorization required by this section is in addition to any other permit
or license required by law.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.

– 4 –