PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 467

Chapter 467

(House Bill 113)

AN ACT concerning

Vehicle Laws – Horse Riding – Helmet Requirement for Minors

FOR the purpose of prohibiting an adult from allowing certain minors to ride a horse on
certain property unless the minor is wearing a helmet that meets certain standards;
and generally relating to helmet requirements and horse riding.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 11–101 and 11–127
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 21–104
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Transportation

11–101.

In the Maryland Vehicle Law, the following words have the meanings indicated,
unless the context requires otherwise.

11–127.

“Highway” means:

(1) The entire width between the boundary lines of any way or
thoroughfare of which any part is used by the public for vehicular travel, whether or not
the way or thoroughfare has been dedicated to the public and accepted by any proper
authority; and

(2) For purposes of the application of State laws, the entire width between
the boundary lines of any way or thoroughfare used for purposes of vehicular travel on any
property owned, leased, or controlled by the United States government and located in the
State.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 467 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

21–104.

(a) Every person riding an animal or driving an animal–drawn vehicle on a
roadway has all the rights granted to and is subject to all the duties required of the driver
of a vehicle by this title, except for those provisions of this title that by their very nature
cannot apply.

(b) (1) Except in Charles, Worcester, and St. Mary’s counties, or as provided
in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a person may not ride an animal or drive an
animal–drawn vehicle on:

(i) Any divided highway where the posted maximum speed limit is
more than 35 miles per hour; or

(ii) Any controlled access highway.

(2) In Anne Arundel County, a person may ride an animal on any part of a
highway described in paragraph (1) of this subsection, other than on its roadway or
shoulder.

(C) (1) IN SUBSECTION, “HORSE” DONKEYS, MULES,THIS INCLUDES AND
PONIES.

(2) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
ON:THIS SUBSECTION APPLIES ONLY TO HORSE RIDING

1. A HIGHWAY;

2. A HORSE–RIDING TRAIL;PUBLIC PATH OR OR

3. THE ~~THAT:~~GROUNDS OF A FACILITY

A. WHOSE PRIMARY PURPOSE IS EQUESTRIAN
ACTIVITIES; AND

B. THAT SOLICITS OR OFFERS TO THE PUBLIC
RECREATIONAL, EDUCATIONAL, THERAPEUTIC, OR COMPETITIVE EQUESTRIAN
ACTIVITIES.

(II) THIS IS:SUBSECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A MINOR WHO

1. CROSSING A PUBLIC HIGHWAY THAT SEPARATES
LAND;PRIVATELY OWNED

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 467

2. ENGAGED IN AN AGRICULTURAL PRACTICE OR
PURSUIT; ~~OR~~

3. A AMISH MENNONITEMEMBER OF AN OR A
COMMUNITY; OR

4. RECEIVING THERAPY SERVICES FROM A LICENSED
MEDICAL PROVIDER AND FOR WHOM THE USE OF AN ALTERNATIVE HELMET IS
NECESSARY, APPROPRIATE, PROFESSIONALAND IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
ASSOCIATION THERAPEUTIC HORSEMANSHIP INTERNATIONAL’S GUIDELINESOF
ALTERNATIVE HELMET USE.FOR

(3) AN ADULT WHO IS PRESENT AND DIRECTLY SUPERVISING A
MINOR MAY NOT ALLOW THE MINOR TO RIDE A HORSE UNLESS THE MINOR IS
WEARING A PROPERLY SECURED HELMET THAT MEETS OR EXCEEDS THE
AMERICAN SOCIETY TESTING MATERIALSSTANDARDS OF THE OF AND FOR
RIDING.PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR USED IN EQUESTRIAN

(4) A VIOLATION OF THIS SUBSECTION INVOLVING AN ADULT
SUPERVISING MULTIPLE MINORS AT THE SAME TIME SHALL BE TREATED AS A
VIOLATION.SINGLE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 3 –