PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 91

Chapter 91

(House Bill 225)

AN ACT concerning

~~Smart~~ Sustainable Growth Subcabinet ~~–~~ ~~Membership~~ ~~and~~ ~~Duties~~ and Repeal of
the Office of Smart Growth

FOR the purpose of repealing the Office of Smart Growth; repealing the position of Special
Secretary of Smart Growth; renaming the Smart Growth Subcabinet to be the
Sustainable Growth Subcabinet; altering the membership and duties of the ~~Smart~~
~~Growth~~ Subcabinet; and generally relating to the ~~Smart~~ Sustainable Growth
Subcabinet and the repeal of the Office of Smart Growth.

BY repealing and reenacting, ~~without~~ with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–1401, 9–1402, 9–1405, and 9–1406 to be under the amended subtitle
“Subtitle 14. Sustainable Growth Subcabinet”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
Article – State Government
Section ~~9–1406~~ 9–1403 and 9–1404
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

[Office Growth] SUSTAINABLE GROWTH SUBCABINET.Subtitle 14. of Smart

9–1401.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) ~~“Office”~~ ~~means~~ ~~the~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~Smart~~ ~~Growth.~~

~~(c)~~ ~~“Special~~ ~~Secretary”~~ ~~means~~ ~~the~~ ~~Special~~ ~~Secretary~~ ~~of~~ ~~Smart~~ ~~Growth.~~

SUSTAINABLE~~(d)~~ “Subcabinet” means the ~~Smart~~ Growth Subcabinet.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 91 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) “SUSTAINABLE POLICY” STATE ECONOMICGROWTH MEANS THE
GROWTH, RESOURCE PROTECTION, PLANNING POLICY §AND SET FORTH IN
5–7A–01 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.OF THE AND

9–1402.

(a) The General Assembly finds that the State is committed to addressing the
high financial, social, and environmental costs of sprawl development through effective
[smart] growth policy.SUSTAINABLE

(b) The purpose of this subtitle is to establish a centralized office in the State in
[smart]a manner such that the policy of growth can be better articulated,SUSTAINABLE
coordinated, and implemented in order to better serve the residents of the State.

[9–1403.

There is an Office of Smart Growth, established as part of the Executive
Department.]

[9–1404.

(a) The head of the Office is the Special Secretary of Smart Growth, who shall be
appointed by the Governor.

(b) (1) The Special Secretary serves at the pleasure of the Governor and is
responsible directly to the Governor.

(2) The Special Secretary shall advise the Governor on all matters assigned
to the Office and is responsible for carrying out the Governor’s policies on smart growth.

(c) (1) The Special Secretary is responsible for the operation of the Office and
shall establish guidelines and procedures to promote the orderly and efficient
administration of the Office.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this subtitle, the Special Secretary may
establish, reorganize, or abolish areas of responsibility in the Office as necessary to fulfill
the duties assigned to the Special Secretary.

(3) The Special Secretary may adopt regulations necessary to carry out the
provisions of this subtitle.

budget.](d) The Special Secretary is entitled to the salary provided in the State

9–1405.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 91

[Office](a) In addition to any other powers and duties imposed by law, the
SUBCABINET has the powers and duties set forth in this section.

[Office] SUBCABINET(b) The shall:

[smart](1) review State assistance programs related to SUSTAINABLE
growth to determine their applicability, if any, to projects that are consistent with the
[smart]State’s growth policy;SUSTAINABLE

(2) promote interagency consensus and cooperation on projects that are
[smart]consistent with the State’s growth policy and resolve conflictingSUSTAINABLE
agency positions on projects in an expedited manner;

(3) provide advisory and technical assistance to local jurisdictions and to
[smart]the public in preparing, financing, and developing growth andSUSTAINABLE
[conservation]neighborhood projects;VITALITY

(4) gather and disseminate information to the public, including local
jurisdictions, nonprofit organizations, and developers on how to develop projects that are
[smart]consistent with the State’s growth policy;SUSTAINABLE

(5) provide a single point of access for members of the public, including
local jurisdictions, nonprofit organizations, developers, and community and homeowners’
associations who need assistance or guidance in navigating the processes and regulations
[smart]of State agencies on projects that are consistent with the State’s SUSTAINABLE
growth policy;

(6) work with local governments in expediting review of projects that both
[smart]the local government and the State agree are consistent with the State’s
growth policy;SUSTAINABLE

[smart](7) provide effective public information on growthSUSTAINABLE
programs and educational activities, including relationships with the National Center for
Smart Growth Education and Research at the University of Maryland, College Park
[smart]Campus, and coordination of growth outreach efforts to localSUSTAINABLE
governments, the general public, and other interest groups;

(8) coordinate the efforts of the Executive Branch to provide input to the
[smart]General Assembly on legislation that concerns growth andSUSTAINABLE
[conservation]neighborhood VITALITY; and

[in Subcabinet,](9) coordination with the recommend to the Governor
[smart]changes to State law and regulations necessary to advance the policy of
growth.SUSTAINABLE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 91 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

9–1403.~~9–1406.~~

SUSTAINABLE(a) There is a ~~Smart~~ Growth Subcabinet.

(b) The Subcabinet consists of:

[the(1) Special Secretary;

(2)] the Secretary of Agriculture;

[(3)] (2) the Secretary of Budget and Management;

[(4)] (3) the Secretary of Commerce;

(4) SECRETARY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT;THE OF

(5) the Secretary of the Environment;

(6) the Secretary of General Services;

(7) the Secretary of Higher Education;

(8) the Secretary of Housing and Community Development;

(9) the Assistant Secretary of the Office of Neighborhood Revitalization;

(10) the Secretary of Natural Resources;

(11) the Secretary of Planning;

(12) the Secretary of Transportation;

(13) a representative of the Governor’s office;

(14) the Secretary of Health;

(15) the Secretary of Labor; and

(16) the Director of the Maryland Energy Administration.

(c) The Executive Director of the National Center for Smart Growth Education
and Research at the University of Maryland, College Park Campus shall serve as an ex
officio member of the Subcabinet.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 91

[Special] PLANNING(d) (1) The Secretary shall chair the Subcabinet andOF
shall be responsible for the oversight, direction, and accountability of the work of the
Subcabinet.

[Planning] HOUSING COMMUNITY(2) The Secretary of AND
DEVELOPMENT shall be the vice chair of the Subcabinet.

DEPARTMENT PLANNING(e) (1) The ~~Office~~ shall provide the primaryOF
staff support for the Subcabinet OFFICE.AND SERVE AS ITS PRIMARY

[Special the](2) The Secretary and Secretary of Planning may call upon
any of the Subcabinet members to provide additional staff assistance as needed.

[Special the](f) The Secretary and Secretary of Planning may establish
subcommittees to carry out the work of the Subcabinet.

(g) The Subcabinet shall meet regularly at such times and places as it determines.

(h) (1) The Subcabinet shall:

(i) provide a forum for discussion of interdepartmental issues
~~EQUITY,~~ ~~RESILIENCY,~~relating to activities that affect growth, development, neighborhood
~~conservation~~ VITALITY, and resource management;

(ii) work together using all available resources to promote the
understanding of ~~smart~~ growth;SUSTAINABLE

(iii) work together to create, enhance, support, and revitalize
sustainable communities across the State;EQUITABLE AND

(iv) meet at least biannually with county and municipal elected
leaders and planning officials to discuss local government issues relating to activities that
affect ~~smart~~ growth, development, neighborhoodEQUITABLE AND RESILIENT
~~conservation~~ VITALITY, and resource management;

(v) subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, make
recommendations to:

1. the Department of Commerce in accordance with § 5–1304
of the Economic Development Article;

2. the Department of Housing and Community Development
in accordance with § 6–206 of the Housing and Community Development Article;

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 91 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

3. the Department of Planning in accordance with § 5A–303
of the State Finance and Procurement Article; and

4. the Department of Transportation in accordance with §
7–101 of the Transportation Article;

(vi) in coordination with State agencies, evaluate and report
annually to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of this article, to the General
Assembly on the implementation of the State’s ~~smart~~ growth policy; andSUSTAINABLE

(vii) perform other duties assigned by the Governor.

(2) The failure of the Subcabinet to make a recommendation under
paragraph (1)(v) of this subsection may not be construed as prohibiting a department to act
in accordance with the department’s authority under State law.

(i) The annual report required in subsection (h)(1) of this section shall include:

(1) a description of the projects, programs, and costs of activities located in
priority funding areas;

(2) a description of projects, programs, and costs of activities funded under
the exceptions allowed in § 5–7B–06 of the State Finance and Procurement Article;

(3) projects submitted to the Board of Public Works for funding outside
priority funding areas under the extraordinary circumstances exception in accordance with
§ 5–7B–05 of the State Finance and Procurement Article and the impact of these projects
upon the State’s ~~smart~~ growth policy;SUSTAINABLE

(4) a list of programs and policies reviewed and changed to ensure
compliance with the State’s ~~smart~~ growth policy; andSUSTAINABLE

(5) a list of projects or programs approved and funded under Chapter 759,
§ 2 of the Acts of 1997.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the publisher of the
Annotated Code of Maryland, in consultation with and subject to the approval of the
Department of Legislative Services, shall correct, with no further action required by the
General Assembly, cross–references and terminology rendered incorrect by this Act. The
publisher shall adequately describe any correction that is made in an editor’s note following
the section affected.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.

– 6 –