PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 147

Chapter 147

(House Bill 241)

AN ACT concerning

Housing and Community Development – Just Community Designation

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Governor, on the recommendation of the Secretary of
Housing and Community Development, to designate certain areas as Just
Communities based on certain criteria; providing for the prioritization of State
funding for Just Communities; and generally relating to Just Communities.

BY adding to
Article – Housing and Community Development
Section 6–1201 through 6–1203 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 12. Just
Community Designation”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Housing and Community Development

SUBTITLE 12. JUST COMMUNITY DESIGNATION.

6–1201.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “JUST COMMUNITY” MEANS THE PART OF A PRIORITY FUNDING AREA
THAT, GOVERNOR, §AS DETERMINED BY THE SATISFIES THE REQUIREMENTS OF
6–1203 SUBTITLE.OF THIS

(C) “PRIORITY AREA”FUNDING MEANS AN AREA DESIGNATED AS A
§ 5–7B–02 STATE FINANCEPRIORITY FUNDING AREA UNDER OF THE AND
PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.

6–1202.

(A) THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY STATE JUSTFINDS THAT THE MUST HAVE
COMMUNITIES TO:IN ORDER

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 147 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) EQUITY, RIGHTS,AFFIRMATIVELY ADVANCE CIVIL RACIAL
JUSTICE, STATE;AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN THE

(2) CREATE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF
UNDERSERVED,COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE BEEN HISTORICALLY WITH ANTICIPATED
STATE;BENEFITS FOR THE ENTIRE AND

(3) PAST, STATERIGHT THE WRONGS OF THE WHEN THE
SYSTEMATICALLY EXCLUDED CERTAIN GROUPS FROM EQUAL PARTICIPATION IN
RESOURCES.THE BENEFITS OF PUBLIC

(B) IT GENERAL ASSEMBLY JUSTIS THE INTENT OF THE THAT THE
COMMUNITY STATEDESIGNATION BE USED TO PRIORITIZE FUNDING TO INCREASE
RACIAL, ECONOMIC, STATE.AND HEALTH EQUITY IN THE

6–1203.

(A) THE GOVERNOR, SECRETARY,ON THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE MAY
JUST COMMUNITY SECRETARYDESIGNATE AN AREA AS A IF THE DEMONSTRATES
THAT:

(1) HOMEOWNERSHIP,PAST AND CURRENT TRENDS IN PROPERTY
VALUES, VACANCY,COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS OR HOUSING
AREA;INVESTMENT SHOW A NEED FOR REINVESTMENT IN THE AND

(2) OF:THE AREA HAS BEEN NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY A HISTORY

(I) FORMS OF LEGAL RACIAL SEGREGATION INCLUDING
REDLINING, ZONING, COVENANTS;EXCLUSIONARY OR RACIALLY RESTRICTIVE

(II) THE DEMOLITION OF RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
STATE FUNDING;THROUGH THE USE OF EMINENT DOMAIN OR OR FEDERAL

(III) STATE 750A IMPRISONMENT RATE HIGHER THAN PER
100,000 PERSONS; OR

(IV) UNEQUAL EXPOSURE TO ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH
HAZARDS, INCLUDING:

1. SUPERFUND SITE;PROXIMITY TO A FEDERAL

2. LEAD–BASED PAINT;ESTIMATED EXPOSURE TO AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 147

3. RATES OF ASTHMA AMONG ADULTS THAT ARE HIGHER
90TH STATE.THAN THE PERCENTILE FOR THE

(B) TO JUST COMMUNITY DESIGNATION, 5MAINTAIN A EVERY YEARS THE
SECRETARY SHALL MAKE DESIGNATION RECOMMENDATIONS FOR APPROVAL BY
GOVERNOR (A) SECTION.THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS

(C) AT JUST COMMUNITIES RENEWED,THE TIME ARE DESIGNATED OR THE
GOVERNOR STATE JUST COMMUNITYSHALL IDENTIFY PROGRAMS UNDER WHICH A
STATE FUNDING.SHALL RECEIVE PRIORITY FOR

(D) THE STATE JUST COMMUNITIESPRIORITIZATION OF FUNDING FOR
(C)UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION SHALL NOT SUPERSEDE OTHER PROGRAM
STATE LAW.REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED IN

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 3 –