PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 105

Chapter 105

(House Bill 251)

AN ACT concerning

Unemployment Insurance – Covered Employment – Employees of Governmental
Entities or Charitable, Educational, or Religious Organizations

FOR the purpose of specifying that certain limitations on the payment of benefits to
employees of governmental entities or charitable, educational, or religious
organizations do not apply with respect to service in other covered employment even
if the service is provided exclusively for a governmental entity or a charitable,
educational, religious, or other organization; and generally relating to eligibility to
receive unemployment insurance benefits.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Labor and Employment
Section 8–208(a) and 8–212(c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Labor and Employment
Section 8–909
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Labor and Employment

8–208.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, employment is covered
employment if the employment is:

(1) performed for a charitable, educational, religious, or other organization;
and

(2) excluded from the definition of “employment” in the Federal
Unemployment Tax Act solely by § 3306(c)(8) of the Act.

8–212.

(c) (1) Except as provided in this subtitle, employment performed for a
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 105 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

governmental entity of a state is covered employment if the employment is excluded from
the definition of “employment” in the Federal Unemployment Tax Act solely by § 3306(c)(7)
of the Act.

(2) Employment performed for a governmental entity is not covered
employment if performed:

(i) as an elected official;

(ii) as a member of a legislative body, a judicial body, the State
National Guard, or the Air National Guard;

(iii) as a temporary employee in case of an earthquake, flood, fire,
snow, storm or similar emergency;

(iv) in a position that, under the laws of the State, is designated a
major nontenured advisory or policymaking position;

(v) in an advisory or policymaking position that ordinarily requires
8 hours or less of work each week; or

(vi) as an election official or election worker if the amount of
remuneration received by the individual during the calendar year for services as an election
official or election worker is less than $1,000.

8–909.

(1) THIS(a) SECTION APPLIES ONLY WITH RESPECT TO SERVICE IN
§§ 8–208(A) 8–212(C) TITLE.COVERED EMPLOYMENT UNDER AND OF THIS

(2) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY WITH RESPECT TO SERVICE IN
EMPLOYMENT,OTHER COVERED INCLUDING COVERED EMPLOYMENT FOR A
FOR–PROFIT UNIT,EMPLOYING EVEN IF THE SERVICE IS PROVIDED EXCLUSIVELY
CHARITABLE, EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS,FOR A GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY OR A OR
ORGANIZATION.OTHER

(B) Subject to the provisions of this section, benefits based on service in covered
employment under §§ 8–208(a) and 8–212(c) of this title shall be payable in the same
amount, on the same terms, and subject to the same conditions as benefits payable on the
basis of other service in covered employment.

[(b)] (C) (1) With respect to services performed in an instructional, research,
or principal administrative capacity for an educational institution, benefits may not be paid
based on those services for any week of unemployment that begins during:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 105

(i) a period between 2 successive academic years;

(ii) a similar period between 2 regular but not successive terms; or

(iii) a period of contractually provided paid sabbatical leave.

(2) This subsection applies only to any individual who:

(i) performs the services in an instructional, research, or principal
administrative capacity in the first of 2 academic years or terms; and

(ii) has a contract or reasonable assurance that the individual will
perform the services in an instructional, research, or principal administrative capacity for
any educational institution in the second of the 2 academic years or terms.

[(c)] (D) (1) With respect to services performed for an educational institution
in any capacity other than instructional, research, or principal administrative, benefits
may not be paid on the basis of the services for any week of unemployment that begins
during a period between 2 successive academic years or terms.

(2) This subsection applies to any individual who:

(i) performs the services described in this subsection in the first of
2 academic years or terms; and

(ii) has a reasonable assurance that the individual will perform the
services in the second of the 2 successive academic years or terms.

(3) Before July 1 of each year, each educational institution shall provide
the Department with the name and Social Security number of each individual who has a
reasonable assurance of performing covered employment described under this subsection
in the next academic year.

(4) If an individual whose name and Social Security number are required
to be submitted to the Department under paragraph (3) of this subsection is not given an
opportunity to perform the services for the educational institution for the next successive
year or term, the individual shall be eligible for benefits retroactively if the individual:

(i) files a timely claim for each week;

(ii) was denied benefits solely under this subsection; and

(iii) is otherwise eligible for benefits.

[(d)] (E) [(b) (c)] (C)(1) With respect to services described in subsections and
(D) of this section, an individual may not be eligible for benefits based on the servicesAND

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 105 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

for any week that begins during an established and customary vacation period or holiday
recess.

(2) This subsection applies to any individual who:

(i) performs the services in the period immediately before the
vacation period or holiday recess; and

(ii) has a reasonable assurance that the individual will perform the
services in the period immediately following the vacation period or holiday recess.

[(e)] (F) (1) In this subsection, “educational service agency” means a
governmental entity that is established and operated exclusively to provide educational
service to one or more educational institutions.

[(b) (c)] (C) (D)(2) If any service described in subsection or of thisOR
section is performed by an individual in an educational institution while in the employ of
[(b), (d)] (C),an educational service agency, the individual is subject to subsections (c), and
(D), (E) of this section and benefits may not be paid if not allowed under subsectionAND
[(b), (d)] (C), (D), (E)(c), or of this section.OR

[(f)] (G) [(a)] (B)If any service described in subsection of this section is provided
by an individual to or on behalf of an educational institution, the individual is subject to
[(b), (d)] (C), (D), (E)subsections (c), and of this section and benefits may not be paidAND
[(b), (d)] (C), (D), (E)if not allowed under subsections (c), and of this section.AND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.

– 4 –