PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

Chapter 99

(House Bill 222)

AN ACT concerning

Correctional Services – Division of Pretrial Detention and Services – Facilities

FOR the purpose of altering the composition and authority of the Division of Pretrial
Detention and Services within the Department of Public Safety and Correctional
Services; altering the authority of the Commissioner of the Division; establishing the
Youth Detention Center in the Division; establishing the facility administrator and
authorizing assistant facility administrators for the Youth Detention Center;
repealing authorization for the Baltimore City Detention Center; and generally
relating to the Division of Pretrial Detention and Services.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Correctional Services
Section 5–201 and 5–202; and 5–401 through 5–406 to be under the amended subtitle
“Subtitle 4. Baltimore City – Facilities”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2017 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Correctional Services

5–201.

(a) There is a Division of Pretrial Detention and Services in the Department.

(b) The Division consists of:

(1) a Pretrial Release Services Program;

[a(2) Baltimore City Detention Center; and

(3)] City;a centralized booking facility for Baltimore

(3) MARYLAND TRANSITION CENTER;THE

(4) CHESAPEAKE DETENTION CENTER;THE AND

(5) YOUTH DETENTION CENTER.THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 99 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(c) The Division has the same authority with regard to the custody of its inmates
[Baltimore Center]and the operation of the City Detention FACILITIES WITHIN THE
DIVISION as:

(1) the Division of Correction has under this Code with regard to the
custody of its inmates and the operation of the Division of Correction; and

(2) the sheriffs have under this Code with regard to the detention of
inmates committed to their custody and the operation of local correctional facilities.

(d) This title does not limit or supersede the authority of a court to determine the
conditions of pretrial release.

5–202.

(a) With the approval of the Governor, the Secretary shall appoint a
Commissioner of Pretrial Detention and Services.

(b) The Commissioner serves at the pleasure of the Secretary.

(c) The Commissioner:

(1) has the same authority over the Division as this Code vests in the
Commissioner of Correction over the Division of Correction;

(2) shall keep safely any inmate committed or transferred to the custody of
the Commissioner until the inmate is discharged in accordance with law;

(3) is in charge of the Division, subject to the authority of the Secretary;

(4) is the appointing authority for all employees of the Division;

(5) shall establish a home detention program under terms and conditions
that the Secretary provides;

(6) may enter agreements with the Commissioner of Correction and
[Baltimoregovernmental units for the housing of any inmate held in the City Detention
Center] DIVISION;CUSTODY OF THE

(7) may enter agreements for the housing of any inmate committed to
[the Center]federal or local governmental units in Baltimore City Detention A FACILITY
DIVISION; andWITHIN THE

(8) may enter other agreements necessary to carry out the purposes of this
title.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(d) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection and notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Commissioner shall establish by regulation the terms and
conditions of the home detention program required under subsection (c)(5) of this section.

(2) The authority of a court to determine the conditions of pretrial release
or to find that a defendant awaiting trial may not be placed on a home detention program
may not be limited or superseded by:

(i) a regulation of the Division or Department; or

(ii) the Division or the Commissioner.

[Detention Center] – FACILITIES.Subtitle 4. Baltimore City

5–401.

[Baltimore Center] YOUTH DETENTION CENTER(a) There is a City Detention
in the Division.

[Baltimore(b) The City Detention Center is a pretrial detention facility for
Commissioner] YOUTHinmates committed or transferred to the custody of the
DETENTION CENTER IS A PRETRIAL DETENTION FACILITY FOR JUVENILE
18INCARCERATED INDIVIDUALS UNDER THE AGE OF YEARS WHO HAVE BEEN
BALTIMORE CITY.CHARGED WITH A CRIME AS AN ADULT IN

[(c) The Secretary may authorize the housing in the Baltimore City Detention
Department.]Center of any inmate held in custody under any unit in the

5–402.

[warden(a) With the approval of the Secretary, the Commissioner shall appoint a
Center] YOUTHof the Baltimore City Detention FACILITY ADMINISTRATOR OF THE
DETENTION CENTER.

[warden](b) The serves at the pleasure of theFACILITY ADMINISTRATOR
Commissioner.

[warden](c) Subject to the authority of the Commissioner and the Secretary, the
[Baltimore Center] YOUTHis in charge of the City DetentionFACILITY ADMINISTRATOR
DETENTION CENTER.

5–403.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 99 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[wardens](a) The Commissioner may appoint assistant FACILITY
[Baltimore Center] YOUTH DETENTIONfor the City DetentionADMINISTRATORS
CENTER as provided in the State budget.

[warden](b) An assistant serves at the pleasure ofFACILITY ADMINISTRATOR
the Commissioner.

(c) Subject to the authority of the Commissioner and the Secretary, in the absence
[warden] [warden]of the ADMINISTRATOR, an assistantFACILITY FACILITY
[warden]designated by the is in charge ofADMINISTRATOR FACILITY ADMINISTRATOR
[Baltimore Center] YOUTH DETENTION CENTER.the City Detention

5–404.

(a) The Division shall operate a centralized booking facility for Baltimore City.

(b) The centralized booking facility shall include:

(1) pretrial release services;

(2) District Court Commissioners;

(3) an Office of the State’s Attorney for Baltimore City; and

(4) Baltimore City Police Services.

[or Center](c) The centralized booking facility the Baltimore City Detention
shall be equipped for video bail review.

5–405.

[Baltimore Center](a) An inmate in the City Detention CENTRALIZED
who is sick, injured, or disabled shall:BOOKING FACILITY

(1) reimburse the State, as appropriate, for the payment of medical
expenses; and

(2) provide the warden with any information relating to:

(i) the existence of any health insurance, group health plan, or
prepaid medical care coverage under which the inmate is insured or covered;

(ii) the inmate’s eligibility for benefits under the Maryland Medical
Assistance Program;

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 99

(iii) the name and address of the third party payor; and

(iv) any policy or other identifying number relating to items (i)
through (iii) of this item.

(b) (1) In addition to obtaining any reimbursement authorized under
subsection (a) of this section and subject to paragraph (4) of this subsection, the Department
shall establish a reasonable fee, not to exceed $4, for each visit by an inmate to an
institutional medical unit or noninstitutional physician, dentist, or optometrist.

(2) The per visit fee shall be deducted from an inmate’s spending financial
account, reserve financial account, or similar account held by the warden on behalf of the
inmate.

(3) The fees collected under this subsection shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the State.

(4) This subsection does not apply to a visit by an inmate to a medical unit
or a physician, dentist, or optometrist if the visit is:

(i) required as a part of the intake process;

(ii) required for an initial physical examination;

(iii) due to a referral by a nurse or physician’s assistant;

(iv) provided during a follow–up visit that is initiated by a medical
[Baltimore Center]professional from the City Detention CENTRALIZED BOOKING
FACILITY;

(v) initiated by a medical or mental health staff member of the
[Baltimore Center]City Detention FACILITY; orCENTRALIZED BOOKING

(vi) required for necessary treatment.

(c) Subsections (a) and (b) of this section do not impose liability for
reimbursement or payment of medical expenses on any person other than an inmate
personally or through a person that provides insurance, coverage, or other benefits
described under subsection (a) of this section.

5–406.

[warden](a) On the recommendation of a healthcare provider, the FACILITY
[Baltimore Center] YOUTH DETENTION CENTERof the City DetentionADMINISTRATOR
[warden’s] ADMINISTRATOR’Sand the designees may authorize medicalFACILITY
[warden]treatment of a juvenile inmate when in the judgment of the FACILITY
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 99 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

or a designee the treatment is required and a parent, guardian, or personADMINISTRATOR
in loco parentis of the juvenile is not available on a timely basis to give the authorization.

[warden] [warden’s](b) The or theFACILITY ADMINISTRATOR FACILITY
ADMINISTRATOR’S designees may not be held liable for authorizing medical treatment
under this section in good faith.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.

– 6 –