PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 607

Chapter 607

(House Bill 382)

AN ACT concerning

Criminal and Civil Trespass – Professional Land Surveyors – Exception

FOR the purpose of establishing exceptions to certain criminal prohibitions against
trespass on property and the civil tort of trespass for professional land surveyors,
and agents and employees of professional land surveyors, who enter the property of
another to practice land surveying; and generally relating to professional land
surveyors and the criminal and civil law on trespass.

BY adding to
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 5–427
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Criminal Law
Section 6–412
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

5–427.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “PRACTICE SURVEYING”LAND HAS THE SAME MEANING AS
§ 15–101 BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONSPROVIDED IN OF THE AND
ARTICLE.

(3) “PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR”LAND MEANS A LAND SURVEYOR
STATE BOARD PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYORSWHO IS LICENSED BY THE FOR TO
SURVEYING.PRACTICE LAND

(B) A SURVEYOR,PROFESSIONAL LAND OR AN AGENT OR EMPLOYEE OF A

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 607 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SURVEYOR,PROFESSIONAL LAND WHO ENTERS A PROPERTY TO PRACTICE LAND
SURVEYING MAY NOT BE HELD LIABLE UNDER THE COMMON LAW TORT OF
TRESPASS.

(C) THIS NOT:SECTION DOES

(1) AFFECT, AFFECTING,AND MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED AS ANY
IMMUNITIES FROM CIVIL LIABILITY OR DEFENSES ESTABLISHED BY ANY OTHER
CODEPROVISION OF THE OR AVAILABLE AT COMMON LAW OR EQUITY TO WHICH A
SURVEYOR,PROFESSIONAL LAND OR AN AGENT OR EMPLOYEE OF A PROFESSIONAL
SURVEYOR, ENTITLED;LAND MAY BE OR

(2) IMPAIR THE RIGHT OF A PERSON TO SEEK REDRESS UNDER ANY
CODEOTHER PROVISION OF THE OR AT COMMON LAW OR EQUITY FOR CONDUCT BY
SURVEYOR,A PROFESSIONAL LAND OR AN AGENT OR EMPLOYEE OF A
SURVEYOR, ACTIONABLE.PROFESSIONAL LAND THAT IS OTHERWISE

Article – Criminal Law

6–412.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “PRACTICE SURVEYING”LAND HAS THE SAME MEANING AS
§ 15–101 BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONSPROVIDED IN OF THE AND
ARTICLE.

(3) “PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR”LAND MEANS A LAND SURVEYOR
STATE BOARD PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYORSWHO IS LICENSED BY THE FOR TO
SURVEYING.PRACTICE LAND

(B) THIS SURVEYOR,SUBTITLE DOES NOT APPLY TO A PROFESSIONAL LAND
SURVEYOR,OR AN AGENT OR EMPLOYEE OF A PROFESSIONAL LAND WHO ENTERS A
SURVEYING.PROPERTY TO PRACTICE LAND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 2 –