PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1000

Chapter 1000

(House Bill 363)

AN ACT concerning

Caroline County – Alcoholic Beverages – Beer, Wine, and Liquor Tasting License

FOR the purpose of altering the 1–day beer and wine tasting (BWT) license in Caroline
County to be a 1–day beer, wine, and liquor tasting (BWLT) license; altering certain
qualifications for the license; altering the amounts of alcoholic beverages an
individual may consume at a tasting; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages
in Caroline County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 15–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 15–1304
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

15–102.

This title applies only in Caroline County.

15–1304.

[and], wine, [(BWT)] (BWLT)(a) There is a 1–day beer tastingAND LIQUOR
license.

[current](b) The Board may issue the license to a holder of a license or an
[Classorganization that qualifies for a C beer or Class C beer and wine license under §
article] CLASS C BEER, CLASS C WINE,4–1203 of this PER DIEM A PER DIEM BEER AND
CLASS C BEER, WINE, LICENSE.OR A PER DIEM AND LIQUOR

[or],(c) (1) The license authorizes the holder to allow the consumption of beer

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1000 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

wine, for tasting if:OR LIQUOR

[or], wine,(i) the consumer is not charged for the beer LIQUOR;OR
and

[or], wine,(ii) the beer is consumed on the licensedOR LIQUOR
premises.

(2) The license may not be issued to a person more than 26 times in a
calendar year.

(d) The Board need not publish a license application before granting the license.

[or], wine,(e) An individual may consume beer covered by theOR LIQUOR
license in a quantity of not more than:

[8] 9(1) 3 ounces from each offering of beer, and ounces from all offerings
[and]in a day;

(2) 1 ounce from each offering of wine, and 4 ounces from all offerings in a
day; AND

(3) 0.5 LIQUOR, 2.5OUNCE FROM EACH OFFERING OF AND OUNCES
DAY.FROM ALL OFFERINGS IN A

(f) At the end of the day for which the license is valid, the license holder shall
[or], wine,dispose of beer that remains in a container that was opened forOR LIQUOR
tasting.

(g) The license fee is $50.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –