PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 294

Chapter 294

(House Bill 372)

AN ACT concerning

Montgomery County and Prince George’s County – Rent Court Workforce
Solutions Pilot Program

FOR the purpose of establishing the Rent Court Workforce Solutions Pilot Program in
Montgomery County and Prince George’s County to provide certain individuals with
certain resources and information on workforce development and employment
opportunities; and generally relating to the Rent Court Workforce Solutions Pilot
Program.

BY adding to
Article – Real Property
Section 8–1001 through 8–1006 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 10. Rent Court
Workforce Solutions Pilot Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Real Property

SUBTITLE 10. RENT COURT WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS PILOT PROGRAM.

8–1001.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “COVERED INDIVIDUAL” MEANS A DEFENDANT TENANT OF A
§RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY IN A FAILURE TO PAY RENT CASE FILED UNDER
8–401 TITLE.OF THIS

(C) “DESIGNATED ORGANIZATION” MEANS THE FISCAL AND
COUNTY’SADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OF A LOCAL WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
BOARD.

(D) “PILOT PROGRAM” RENT COURT WORKFORCE SOLUTIONSMEANS THE
PILOT PROGRAM.

8–1002.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 294 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

THIS MONTGOMERY COUNTY PRINCESUBTITLE APPLIES ONLY IN AND
GEORGE’S COUNTY.

8–1003.

(A) THERE RENT COURT WORKFORCE SOLUTIONS PILOT PROGRAM.IS A

(B) THE PILOT PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE COVERED
WITH:INDIVIDUALS

(1) WORKFORCE RESOURCES; AND

(2) INFORMATION ON:

(I) WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT; AND

(II) ~~EMPLOYMENT~~ REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIPS AND OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES.EMPLOYMENT

(C) A PILOTDESIGNATED ORGANIZATION SHALL ADMINISTER THE
PROGRAM.

8–1004.

(A) THE DISTRICT COURT ~~SHALL~~ MAY ALLOW AT LEAST ONE
DISTRICTREPRESENTATIVE FROM A DESIGNATED ORGANIZATION TO OPERATE IN A
COURT COURTHOUSE ON DAYS ON WHICH CASES FILED FOR A FAILURE TO PAY RENT
§ 8–401 HEARD.UNDER OF THIS TITLE ARE

(B) THE DISTRICTOPERATION OF A DESIGNATED ORGANIZATION IN A
COURT COURTHOUSE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY A MEMORANDUM OF
UNDERSTANDING SIGNED BY A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DESIGNATED
DISTRICTORGANIZATION AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGE FOR THE APPLICABLE
COURT.

~~(B)~~ (C) NOTHING IN THIS SUBTITLE MAY BE CONSTRUED TO REQUIRE THE
DISTRICT COURT TO ALLOW A REPRESENTATIVE FROM A DESIGNATED
COURTROOM.ORGANIZATION TO OPERATE WITHIN A

~~(C)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~AGREE,~~~~BOTH~~ ~~PARTIES~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COURT~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~GRANT~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONTINUANCE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~A~~
~~STAY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EVICTION~~ ~~PROCEEDING~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~FAILURE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PAY~~ ~~RENT~~ ~~SO~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~A~~
~~PILOT~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~~~COVERED~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~PARTICIPATE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 294

8–1005.

ON JANUARY 1, 2026, JANUARY 1 THEREAFTER,OR BEFORE AND EACH A
GOVERNOR AND,DESIGNATED ORGANIZATION SHALL REPORT TO THE IN
§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERALACCORDANCE WITH OF THE THE
ASSEMBLY ON THE NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS THAT WERE CONNECTED TO
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS OR EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
PILOT PROGRAM.THROUGH THE

8–1006.

FOR 2026 2028, GOVERNOREACH OF FISCAL YEARS THROUGH THE SHALL
OF:INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION

(1) $100,000 TO THE DESIGNATED ORGANIZATION FOR
MONTGOMERY COUNTY ~~OFFICE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ TO BE USED FOR THE
PILOT PROGRAM; AND

(2) $100,000 PRINCETO THE DESIGNATED ORGANIZATION FOR
GEORGE’S COUNTY ~~OFFICE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ TO BE USED FOR THE
PILOT PROGRAM.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 3 –