PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 172

Chapter 172

(House Bill 336)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Program – Materials for
Individualized Education Program, Individualized Family Service Plan, and 504
Plan Meetings

FOR the purpose of requiring a local school system to provide to parents at certain
individualized education program, individualized family service plan, and 504 plan
meetings for children with disabilities certain written informational materials
regarding the Maryland Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Program in a
certain manner; requiring the State Treasurer to develop certain informational
materials about the Maryland ABLE Program; requiring the State Treasurer to
provide certain informational materials to the State Board of Education and county
boards of education for a certain purpose; and generally relating to individualized
education programs, individualized family service plans, and 504 plans for children
with disabilities and the Maryland ABLE Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section 8–405(a)(1) and (4), (b)(1), (c), and (j)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 8–405(b)(2) and (3) and 18–19C–03(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 8–405.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

8–405.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 172 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) “Individualized education program” and “individualized family service
plan” have the same meaning as provided in the federal Individuals with Disabilities
Education Act.

(b) (1) When a team of qualified professionals and the parents meet for the
purpose of discussing the identification, evaluation, educational program, or the provision
of a free appropriate public education of a child with a disability:

(i) The parents of the child shall be afforded the opportunity to
participate and shall be provided reasonable notice in advance of the meeting; and

(ii) Reasonable notice shall be at least 10 calendar days in advance
of the meeting, unless an expedited meeting is being conducted to:

1. Address disciplinary issues;

2. Determine the placement of the child with a disability not
currently receiving educational services; or

3. Meet other urgent needs of a child with a disability to
ensure the provision of a free appropriate public education.

(2) (i) 1. At the initial evaluation meeting, the parents of the child
shall be provided:

A. In plain language, an oral and written explanation of the
parents’ rights and responsibilities in the individualized education program process and a
program procedural safeguards notice;

B. Written information that the parents may use to contact
early intervention and special education family support services staff members within the
local school system and a brief description of the services provided by the staff members;
[and]

C. Written information on the Special Education
Ombudsman and toll–free telephone number established under Title 6, Subtitle 5 of the
Article;State Government AND

D. WRITTEN INFORMATIONAL MATERIALS REGARDING
MARYLAND ABLE PROGRAM § 18–19C–03(A)(2)THE PROVIDED UNDER OF THIS
ARTICLE.

AT2. LEAST ONE TIME EACH YEAR AT AN
INDIVIDUALIZED EDUCATION PROGRAM OR INDIVIDUALIZED FAMILY SERVICE PLAN

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 172

MEETING,TEAM THE PARENTS OF THE CHILD SHALL BE PROVIDED WITH THE
1DWRITTEN INFORMATIONAL MATERIALS DESCRIBED UNDER SUBSUBPARAGRAPH
SUBPARAGRAPH.OF THIS

3. If a parent’s native language is not English, the
[1B C] 1B, C, Dinformation in subsubparagraph and of this subparagraph shall beAND
provided to the parent in the parent’s native language.

(ii) The parents may request the information provided under
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph at any subsequent meeting.

(iii) If a child who has an individualized education program
developed in another school system moves into a different local school system, that local
[(i)1B C]school system shall provide the information required under subparagraph and
(I)1B, C, D of this paragraph at the time of the first written communication with theAND
parents regarding the child’s individualized education program or special education
services.

(iv) A local school system shall publish information that a parent
may use to contact early intervention and special education family support services staff
members within the local school system and a brief description of the services provided by
the staff members in a prominent place on the section of its website relating to special
education services.

[(2)(i)1B(3) Failure to provide the information required under paragraph
C] (2)(I)1B, C, D 2and of this subsection does not constitute grounds for a dueAND AND
process complaint under § 8–413 of this subtitle.

(c) The individualized education program team shall determine, on at least an
annual basis, whether the child requires extended year services in order to ensure that the
child is not deprived of a free appropriate public education by virtue of the normal break in
the regular school year.

(j) The Department shall adopt:

(1) Regulations that define what information should be provided in the
verbal and written explanations of the parents’ rights and responsibilities in the
individualized education program process; and

(2) Any other regulations necessary to carry out subsection (b)(2) and (4) of
this section.

8–405.1.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 172 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) SUBJECT (B) SECTION,TO SUBSECTION OF THIS AT LEAST ONE TIME
STUDENT’S 504 MEETING,EACH YEAR AT A PLAN THE PARENTS OF THE STUDENT
SHALL BE PROVIDED WITH THE WRITTEN INFORMATIONAL MATERIALS REGARDING
MARYLAND ABLE PROGRAM § 18–19C–03(A)(2)THE PROVIDED UNDER OF THIS
ARTICLE.

(B) (1) IF STUDENT’S 504A PLAN MEETING DOES NOT OCCUR AT LEAST
YEAR,ONE TIME EACH THE WRITTEN INFORMATIONAL MATERIALS DESCRIBED
(A) 504UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION SHALL BE PROVIDED AT EACH PLAN
MEETING.

(2) IF PARENT’S ENGLISH,A NATIVE LANGUAGE IS NOT THE WRITTEN
PARENT’SINFORMATIONAL MATERIALS SHALL BE PROVIDED IN THE NATIVE
LANGUAGE.

(3) THE PARENTS MAY REQUEST THE WRITTEN INFORMATIONAL
MEETING.MATERIALS PROVIDED AT ANY SUBSEQUENT

18–19C–03.

(I)(a) (1) The State Treasurer may issue requests for proposals to evaluate
and determine the means for the administration, management, promotion, or marketing of
the Maryland ABLE Program.

[(2)] (II) The State Treasurer shall consider proposals that meet the
following criteria:

[(i)] 1. Ability to develop and administer an investment program
of a nature similar to the objectives of the Maryland ABLE Program;

[(ii)] 2. Ability to administer financial programs with individual
account records and reporting; and

[(iii)] 3. Ability to market the Maryland ABLE Program to eligible
individuals.

(2) (I) 1. SUBJECT 2TO SUBSUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBPARAGRAPH, STATE TREASURERTHE SHALL DEVELOP WRITTEN
MARYLAND ABLE PROGRAM.INFORMATIONAL MATERIALS ABOUT THE

2. THE WRITTEN MATERIALS DEVELOPED UNDER THIS
SUBPARAGRAPH SHALL BE IN A FORM THAT ENABLES THE MATERIALS TO BE
HAND.DISTRIBUTED ELECTRONICALLY OR BY

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 172

(II) THE STATE TREASURER SHALL PROVIDE THE MATERIALS
(I) STATE BOARDDEVELOPED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH TO THE
AND COUNTY BOARDS FOR DISTRIBUTION TO PARENTS DURING INDIVIDUALIZED
PROGRAM, PLAN, 504EDUCATION INDIVIDUALIZED FAMILY SERVICE AND PLAN
~~§~~ ~~8–405(B)(2)~~ §§ 8–405(B)(2) 8–405.1MEETINGS IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND OF THIS
ARTICLE.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 5 –