PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 998

Chapter 998

(House Bill 362)

AN ACT concerning

Caroline County – Alcoholic Beverages – Barbershop and Beauty Salon License

FOR the purpose of establishing a barbershop and beauty salon beer and wine license in
Caroline County; authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Caroline
County to issue the license to a holder of a certain barbershop or beauty salon permit;
and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Caroline County.

BY renumbering
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 15–1001 and 15–1001.1
to be Section 15–1002 and 15–1003, respectively
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 15–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 15–1001
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 15–1001 and 15–1001.1 of Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis of
the Annotated Code of Maryland be renumbered to be Section(s) 15–1002 and 15–1003,
respectively.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

15–102.

This title applies only in Caroline County.

15–1001.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 998 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) THERE LICENSE.IS A BARBERSHOP AND BEAUTY SALON BEER AND WINE

(B) THE BOARD OF:MAY ISSUE THE LICENSE TO A HOLDER

(1) § 4–501 BUSINESSA BARBERSHOP PERMIT ISSUED UNDER OF THE
OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE;AND OR

(2) § 5–501A BEAUTY SALON PERMIT ISSUED UNDER OF THE
BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE.AND

(C) THE LICENSE AUTHORIZES THE LICENSE HOLDER TO PROVIDE NOT
12 5MORE THAN OUNCES OF BEER OR OUNCES OF WINE BY THE GLASS FOR
ON–PREMISES CONSUMPTION BY A BARBERSHOP OR BEAUTY SALON CUSTOMER
PROVIDED:WHEN THE CUSTOMER IS BEING

(1) TITLE 4 BUSINESSA BARBERING SERVICE UNDER OF THE
OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE;AND OR

(2) TITLE 5 BUSINESSA COSMETOLOGY SERVICE UNDER OF THE
OCCUPATIONS PROFESSIONS ARTICLE.AND

(D) A LICENSE HOLDER MAY PROVIDE BEER AND WINE DURING NORMAL
HOURS.BUSINESS

(E) A LICENSE HOLDER MAY NOT TRANSFER THE LICENSE TO ANOTHER
LOCATION.

(F) AN ESTABLISHMENT FOR WHICH THE LICENSE IS ISSUED IS SUBJECT TO
§ 4–505THE ALCOHOL AWARENESS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS UNDER OF THIS
§ 15–1902 TITLE.ARTICLE AND OF THIS

(G) THE $100.ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IS

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –