PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 361

Chapter 361

(House Bill 426)

AN ACT concerning

Places of Public Accommodation – Motion Picture Houses – Captioning

FOR the purpose of requiring all motion picture houses to offer closed movie captioning for
each screening of a motion picture; requiring that certain motion picture houses
provide open movie captioning for at least certain screenings each week; and
generally relating to motion picture houses as places of public accommodation.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 20–306
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

20–306.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Closed captioning” means a transcript or dialog of the audio portion of
a television program that is displayed on a television receiver screen~~OR~~ ~~MOTION~~ ~~PICTURE~~
when the user activates the feature.~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~MOTION~~ ~~PICTURE~~ ~~SCREEN~~

(3) “CLOSED CAPTIONING”MOVIE MEANS THE WRITTEN DISPLAY OF
THE DIALOGUE AND CERTAIN NONSPEECH INFORMATION OF A MOTION PICTURE
THAT IS GENERALLY DELIVERED TO INDIVIDUAL PATRONS ON A CAPTIONING
HOUSE.DEVICE IN A MOTION PICTURE

(4)~~(3)~~ “Closed–captioning television receiver” means a receiver of
television programming that has the ability to display closed captioning, including a
television, digital set top box, and any other technology capable of displaying closed
captioning.

~~(4)~~ (5) “OPEN CAPTIONING”MOVIE MEANS A TRANSCRIPT OR
DIALOG OF THE AUDIO PORTION OF A MOTION PICTURE THAT IS DISPLAYED ON A
VIEWER.MOTION PICTURE SCREEN THAT CANNOT BE TURNED OFF BY A

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 361 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(4)] ~~(5)~~ (6) “Public area” means a part of a place of public accommodation
that is open to the general public.

[(5)] ~~(6)~~ (7) “Regular hours” means the hours of any day in which a place of
public accommodation is open to members of the general public.

(1)(b) On request, a place of public accommodation may not fail to keep closed
captioning activated on any closed–captioning television receiver that is in use during
regular hours in any public area.

[(c)] (2) [section]This does not require a place of publicSUBSECTION
accommodation to make closed captioning available in a public area of the place of public
accommodation if:

[(1)] (I) no television receiver of any kind is available in the public area;
or

[(2)] (II) the only public television receiver available in the public area is
not a closed–captioning television receiver.

(C) (1) A PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION THAT IS A MOTION
PICTURE HOUSE SHALL PROVIDE ACCESS TO FULLY OPERATIONAL AND
WELL–MAINTAINED ~~CLOSED–CAPTIONING~~ CLOSED MOVIE CAPTIONING
TECHNOLOGY FOR THE GENERAL PUBLIC FOR EACH SCREENING OF A MOTION
PICTURE THAT IS PRODUCED AND ~~OFFERED~~ AVAILABLE WITH CLOSED MOVIE
TITLE III AMERICANSCAPTIONING AS REQUIRED BY OF THE FEDERAL WITH
DISABILITIES ACT.

(2) (I) THIS ~~7~~PARAGRAPH DOES NOT APPLY ~~DURING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FIRST~~
~~DAYS~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~A~~ ~~MOTION~~ ~~PICTURE~~ ~~PREMIERES~~ TO MOTION PICTURES SCREENED
FRIDAY THURSDAY 7–DAYFEWER THAN FIVE TIMES FROM THROUGH IN A PERIOD
HOUSE.IN THE MOTION PICTURE

(II) THIS 3PARAGRAPH APPLIES ONLY TO THE FIRST WEEKS
HOUSE.AFTER A MOTION PICTURE PREMIERES IN THE MOTION PICTURE

~~(II)~~ (III) ~~A~~ IF A MOTION PICTURE IS PRODUCED AND
CAPTIONING,AVAILABLE TO MOTION PICTURE HOUSES WITH OPEN MOVIE A PLACE
CONTROLS, OPERATES, OWNS,OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION THAT OR LEASES ~~AT~~
~~LEAST~~ ~~TWO~~ A MOTION PICTURE ~~HOUSES~~ HOUSE WITH EIGHT OR MORE SCREENS IN
STATETHE SHALL PROVIDE OPEN MOVIE CAPTIONING FOR AT LEAST TWO
SCREENINGS FOR EACH MOTION PICTURE IT SCREENS EACH WEEK ~~THAT~~ ~~IS~~
~~PRODUCED~~ ~~AND~~ ~~OFFERED~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~CLOSED~~ ~~CAPTIONING~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~TWO~~
~~WEEK.~~~~SCREENINGS~~ ~~EACH~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 361

(IV) BEGINNING 3 WEEKS AFTER A MOTION PICTURE
PREMIERES, CONTROLS, OPERATES, OWNS,A PLACE OF ACCOMMODATION THAT OR
STATELEASES A MOTION PICTURE HOUSE WITH EIGHT OR MORE SCREENS IN THE
NOTICE.MAY PROVIDE OPEN MOVIE CAPTIONING WITH REASONABLE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 3 –