PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 729

Chapter 729

(House Bill 455)

AN ACT concerning

Comptroller – Electronic Tax and Fee Return Filing Requirements

FOR the purpose of requiring that returns for certain taxes and fees collected by the
Comptroller be filed electronically, subject to certain exceptions; altering certain
requirements for electronic filing of returns for certain taxes; prohibiting a certain
tax return preparer or software company from charging a separate fee for the
electronic filing of certain tax documents; prohibiting a software company from
selling different versions of the same tax software under certain circumstances; and
generally relating to electronic filing of tax and fee returns.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Environment
Section 9–228(g)(4) and 9–1605.2(e)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Tax – General
Section 1–208, 2–118, 5–201(f), 7.5–201(d), 9–308(e), 10–809.1, 10–812.1, 10–819.1,
11–502.2, and 12–202.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Tax – General
Section 4–201, 10–817, and 10–824
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing
Article – Tax – General
Section 5–201(f) and 9–308(e)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Tax~~ ~~–~~ ~~General~~
~~Section~~ ~~5–201(f),~~ ~~7.5–201(d),~~ ~~9–207(c),~~ ~~9–308(e),~~ ~~10–809.1,~~ ~~10–812.1,~~ ~~10–819.1,~~
~~11–502.2,~~ ~~and~~ ~~12–202.1~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2022~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 729 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Environment

9–228.

(I)(g) (4) Each tire dealer shall:

[(i)] 1. Pay the tire recycling fee; and

[(ii)] 2. Complete and submit, under oath, a return and remit the
fees to the Comptroller of the Treasury on or before the 21st day of the month that follows
the month in which the sale was made, and for other periods and on other dates that the
Comptroller specifies by regulation, including periods for which no fees were due.

(II) ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS
DECEMBER 31, 2026,BEGINNING AFTER A PERSON SHALL FILE A TIRE RECYCLING
ELECTRONICALLY.FEE RETURN

9–1605.2.

(I)(e) (1) A local government, the billing authority for a water or
wastewater facility, or any other authorized collecting agency shall complete and submit,
under oath, a return and remit the restoration fees collected to the Comptroller:

[(i)] 1. On or before the 20th day of the month that follows the
calendar quarter in which the restoration fee was collected; and

[(ii)] 2. For other periods and on other dates that the Comptroller
may specify by regulation, including periods in which no restoration fee has been collected.

(II) ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS
DECEMBER 31, 2026, BAYBEGINNING AFTER A PERSON SHALL FILE A
RESTORATION FEE ELECTRONICALLY.RETURN

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Tax – General

1–208.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 729

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “AUTHORIZED DOCUMENT”TAX MEANS A TAX DOCUMENT THAT
COMPTROLLERTHE HAS AUTHORIZED OR REQUIRES TO BE FILED
ELECTRONICALLY.

(3) “SOFTWARE COMPANY” SOFTWARE.MEANS A DEVELOPER OF TAX

(4) “TAX” MEANS A TAX OR ANY OTHER MATTER ADMINISTERED BY
COMPTROLLERTHE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS ARTICLE OR ANY OTHER
LAW.PROVISION OF

(5) “TAX DOCUMENT” RETURN, REPORT,MEANS A A OR ANY OTHER
TAX.DOCUMENT RELATING TO A

(6) (I) “TAX PREPARER”RETURN MEANS A PERSON WHO
COMPENSATION,PREPARES FOR OR WHO EMPLOYS OR ENGAGES ONE OR MORE
COMPENSATION, DOCUMENT.PERSONS TO PREPARE FOR AN AUTHORIZED TAX

(II) “TAX PREPARER” SERVICE.RETURN INCLUDES A PAYROLL

(7) (I) “TAX SOFTWARE” MEANS A COMPUTER SOFTWARE
PURPOSES.PROGRAM INTENDED FOR TAX RETURN PREPARATION

(II) “TAX SOFTWARE” OFF–THE–SHELFINCLUDES AN
PREPARER’S TAXPAYER’SSOFTWARE PROGRAM LOADED ONTO A TAX RETURN OR
APPLICATION.COMPUTER OR AN ONLINE TAX PREPARATION

(B) (1) A TAX RETURN PREPARER OR A SOFTWARE COMPANY MAY NOT
CHARGE A SEPARATE FEE FOR THE ELECTRONIC FILING OF AUTHORIZED TAX
DOCUMENTS.

(2) A SOFTWARE COMPANY MAY NOT SELL A VERSION OF THE
COMPANY’S TAX SOFTWARE THAT CHARGES A SEPARATE FEE FOR THE ELECTRONIC
FILING OF AUTHORIZED TAX DOCUMENTS AND A VERSION OF THE SAME TAX
FEE.SOFTWARE THAT DOES NOT CHARGE THE SEPARATE

(C) (1) THE COMPTROLLER SHALL IMPOSE AGAINST A TAX RETURN
PREPARER OR SOFTWARE COMPANY THAT VIOLATES THIS SECTION A CIVIL PENALTY
OF:

(I) $500 VIOLATION;FOR A FIRST OR

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 729 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) $1,000 VIOLATION.FOR A SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT

(2) FOR SUBSECTION,THE PURPOSES OF THIS EACH TRANSACTION IN
WHICH A CUSTOMER IS CHARGED A PROHIBITED FEE OR EACH SALE TO A CUSTOMER
OF TAX SOFTWARE THAT CHARGES A PROHIBITED FEE IS AN INDEPENDENT
VIOLATION.

(3) BEFORE SUBSECTION,A CIVIL PENALTY IS IMPOSED UNDER THIS
COMPTROLLERTHE SHALL PROVIDE TO THE PERSON AGAINST WHOM THE CIVIL
PENALTY WILL BE IMPOSED NOTICE OF THE ALLEGED VIOLATION AND AN
HEARING.OPPORTUNITY FOR A

(4) A PERSON AGAINST WHOM A CIVIL PENALTY IS IMPOSED UNDER
TITLE 10, SUBTITLETHIS SUBSECTION MAY SEEK REVIEW OF THE PENALTY UNDER
2 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.OF THE

(5) EACH GENERAL FUNDCIVIL PENALTY SHALL BE PAID INTO THE
STATE.OF THE

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Tax – General

2–118.

NOTWITHSTANDING LAW,ANY OTHER PROVISION OF A PERSON IS NOT
RETURN, SCHEDULE, COMPTROLLERREQUIRED TO FILE A OR REPORT WITH THE
IF:ELECTRONICALLY

(1) DISABILITY, AMERICANSTHE PERSON HAS A AS DEFINED IN THE
DISABILITIES ACT;WITH

(2) THE PERSON HAS RELIGIOUS BELIEFS THAT PROHIBIT THE
PERSON’S TECHNOLOGY;USE OF ELECTRONIC FILING OR

(3) COMPTROLLERTHE PERSON IS DETERMINED BY THE TO HAVE A
RETURN, SCHEDULE, REPORT.SPECIAL NEED TO FILE A PAPER OR

4–201.

(A) A person shall complete, under oath, and file with the Comptroller the
admissions and amusement tax return:

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 729

(1) on or before the 10th day of the month that follows the month in which
the person has gross receipts subject to the admissions and amusement tax; and

(2) for other periods and on other dates that the Comptroller specifies by
regulation, including periods in which the person has no gross receipts subject to the tax.

(B) ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS BEGINNING AFTER
DECEMBER 31, 2026, A PERSON SHALL FILE THE ADMISSIONS AND AMUSEMENT TAX
ELECTRONICALLY.RETURN

5–201.

[(f) On or before January 1, 2018, the Comptroller shall develop and implement
procedures for the electronic filing of the alcoholic beverage tax returns required to be filed
section.]under this

(F) ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS BEGINNING AFTER
DECEMBER 31, 2026, A PERSON SHALL FILE AN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE TAX RETURN
ELECTRONICALLY.

7.5–201.

(D) ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS BEGINNING AFTER
DECEMBER 31, 2026, A PERSON SHALL FILE A DIGITAL ADVERTISING GROSS
ELECTRONICALLY.REVENUES TAX RETURN

~~9–207.~~

~~(C)~~ ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026,~~~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~FILE~~ ~~A~~ ~~MOTOR~~
~~ELECTRONICALLY.~~~~CARRIER~~ ~~TAX~~ ~~RETURN~~

9–308.

[(e) (1) The Comptroller by regulation may require each person that is required
to file a return under this section to file the return through electronic means.

(2) A regulation adopted under this subsection:

(i) shall include an exemption from electronic filing for persons that
do not have access to means of transmitting data electronically; and

(ii) shall include provisions for the periodic affirmation and
electronically.]verification of the information that is submitted

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 729 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(E) ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS BEGINNING AFTER
DECEMBER 31, 2026, A PERSON SHALL FILE A MOTOR FUEL TAX RETURN
ELECTRONICALLY.

10–809.1.

(A) EXCEPT (B) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS FOR A
DECEMBER 31, 2029,TAXABLE YEAR BEGINNING AFTER AN INDIVIDUAL SHALL FILE
ELECTRONICALLY.AN INCOME TAX RETURN

(B) AN INDIVIDUAL IS NOT REQUIRED TO FILE AN INCOME TAX RETURN
INDIVIDUAL:ELECTRONICALLY IF THE

(1) 65 DECEMBER 31IS AT LEAST YEARS OLD AS OF OF THE TAXABLE
FILED;YEAR FOR WHICH THE RETURN IS BEING

(2) INDIVIDUAL’SIS SINGLE OR A DEPENDENT TAXPAYER AND THE
MARYLAND $200,000;ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME IS LESS THAN

(3) SEPARATELY, HOUSEHOLD,IS MARRIED FILING A HEAD OF OR A
MARYLANDQUALIFYING WIDOW OR WIDOWER WITH A DEPENDENT CHILD AND THE
$400,000;ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME OF THE INDIVIDUAL IS LESS THAN OR

(4) MARYLANDIS MARRIED FILING JOINTLY AND THE ADJUSTED
INDIVIDUAL’SGROSS INCOME OF THE INDIVIDUAL AND THE SPOUSE IS LESS THAN
$400,000; ~~OR~~

~~(5)~~ ~~AMERICANS~~~~HAS~~ ~~A~~ ~~DISABILITY~~ ~~AS~~ ~~DEFINED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~WITH~~
~~DISABILITIES~~ ~~ACT.~~

10–812.1.

(A) EXCEPT (B) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS FOR A
DECEMBER 31, ~~2025~~ 2026,TAXABLE YEAR BEGINNING AFTER A CORPORATION
ELECTRONICALLY.SHALL FILE AN INCOME TAX RETURN

(B) A 15CORPORATION WITH FEWER THAN EMPLOYEES IS NOT REQUIRED
ELECTRONICALLY.TO FILE AN INCOME TAX RETURN

10–817.

(A) A person required to withhold income tax under § 10–906 of this title shall file
an income tax withholding return.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 729

(B) FOR DECEMBER 31, ~~2025~~ 2026,A TAXABLE YEAR BEGINNING AFTER A
ELECTRONICALLY.PERSON SHALL FILE AN INCOME TAX WITHHOLDING RETURN

10–819.1.

(A) IN SECTION, “PASS–THROUGH ENTITY”THIS HAS THE MEANING STATED
§ 10–102.1 TITLE.IN OF THIS

(B) FOR DECEMBER 31, ~~2025~~ 2026,A TAXABLE YEAR BEGINNING AFTER A
PASS–THROUGH ELECTRONICALLY.ENTITY SHALL FILE AN INCOME TAX RETURN

10–824.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) (i) “Income tax return preparer” means a person who for
compensation prepares a substantial portion or more of a qualified return or employs one
or more persons to prepare for compensation a substantial portion or more of a qualified
return.

(ii) “Income tax return preparer” does not include a person who
merely performs those acts described under § 7701(a)(36)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(3) “Qualified return” means any original return of individual income tax
imposed by this title, regardless of whether a tax is due or a refund is claimed.

[Except] SUBJECT § 10–809.1(b) asTO OF THIS SUBTITLE AND EXCEPT
otherwise provided in this section, an income tax return preparer shall file all qualified
returns that the income tax return preparer prepares by electronic means as prescribed by
if[:the Comptroller

(1) for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2008, but before
January 1, 2010, the income tax return preparer has prepared more than 300 qualified
returns in the prior taxable year;

(2) for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2009, but before
January 1, 2011, the income tax return preparer has prepared more than 200 qualified
returns in the prior taxable year; and

2010,](3) for any taxable year beginning after December 31, the income
tax return preparer has prepared more than 100 qualified tax returns in the prior taxable
year.

[Subsection] SUBJECT § 10–809.1 SUBTITLE,(c) (b)TO OF THIS SUBSECTION
of this section does not apply to a qualified return if:

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 729 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) the taxpayer has indicated on the qualified return that the taxpayer
does not want the return filed by electronic means; or

(2) the income tax return preparer preparing the qualified return has
requested and received a waiver from the Comptroller.

[On] SUBJECT § 10–809.1 SUBTITLE,(d) written request for aTO OF THIS ON
waiver by an income tax return preparer who is subject to subsection (b) of this section, the
Comptroller may grant the income tax return preparer a waiver of the requirements of this
section if the income tax return preparer is able to establish to the satisfaction of the
Comptroller either reasonable cause for not filing the return by electronic means or that
there is no feasible means of filing the return by electronic means without undue hardship.

11–502.2.

~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS BEGINNING AFTER
DECEMBER 31, 2026, A PERSON SHALL FILE A SALES AND USE TAX RETURN
ELECTRONICALLY.

12–202.1.

~~BEGINNING~~ ~~2026~~ FOR~~IN~~ ~~CALENDAR~~ ~~YEAR~~ PERIODS BEGINNING AFTER
DECEMBER 31, 2026, A PERSON SHALL FILE A TOBACCO TAX RETURN
ELECTRONICALLY.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section 2 of this Act shall take
effect January 1, 2030.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, except as provided in
Section 4 of this Act, this Act shall take effect July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 8 –