PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 211

Chapter 211

(House Bill 428)

AN ACT concerning

Community Schools – Rental Assistance for Community School Families
Program and Fund – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Rental Assistance for Community School Families
Program to provide rental assistance to eligible student households; requiring ~~the~~
~~State~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Education,~~ ~~in~~ ~~consultation~~ ~~with~~ the Department of Housing and
Community Development, in consultation with the State Department of Education,
to administer the Program; establishing the Rental Assistance for Community
School Families Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; requiring interest earnings of
the Fund to be credited to the Fund; and generally relating to the Rental Assistance
for Community School Families Program and Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 9.9–103 and 9.9–104
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 9.9–104.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)189. and 190.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)191.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 211 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

9.9–103.

(a) There are community schools in the State.

(b) A community school shall:

(1) Promote active family and community engagement, including
educational opportunities for adults and family members of students at the school who live
in the neighborhood of the school;

(2) Have a community school coordinator, as described under § 9.9–104 of
this title;

(3) Promote expanded and enriched learning time and opportunities
provided after school, during weekends, and in the summer that emphasize mastering
21st–century skills through practical learning opportunities and community
problem–solving;

(4) Promote collaborative leadership and practices that empower parents,
students, teachers, principals, and community partners to build a culture of professional
learning, collective trust, and shared responsibility using strategies such as site–based
leadership teams and teacher learning communities;

(5) Have a parent teacher organization or a school family council; and

(6) Have a community school leadership team.

(c) (1) There shall be a Director of Community Schools in the Department.

(2) The Director of Community Schools in the Department shall coordinate
professional development for community school coordinators at each community school.

THE DIRECTOR COMMUNITY SCHOOLS(3) OF ~~SHALL~~ ~~ADMINISTER~~
~~RENTAL~~ ~~ASSISTANCE~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~FAMILIES~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~THE~~ ~~FOR~~
~~§~~ ~~9.9–104.1~~ ~~SUBTITLE,~~~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~COORDINATION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~
~~GOVERNOR’S~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~CHILDREN,~~~~FOR~~ SHALL SUPPORT THE OUTREACH AND
STATE SCHOOLS.IMPLEMENTATION OF PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN IN COMMUNITY

(4) In addition to the funding provided for the Director of Community
Schools position in the Department, the Governor may include in the annual budget bill an

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 211

appropriation of at least $100,000 to the Department for the Director of Community Schools
to provide training and technical assistance to community schools and for additional staff.

9.9–104.

(a) (1) A community school shall have an experienced and qualified
community school coordinator who:

(i) Is hired at the appropriate administrative level;

(ii) Understands, respects, and demonstrates a high degree of
cultural awareness of and competency in the diversity in the community and in
cross–cultural practice with stakeholders; and

(iii) May be employed by the school district.

(2) A community school coordinator may be a social worker.

(b) (1) A community school coordinator shall be responsible for:

(i) Establishing a community school;

(ii) Completing an assessment of the needs of the students in the
school for appropriate wraparound services to enhance the success of all students in the
school;

(iii) Developing an implementation plan based on the assessment of
~~[and]~~needs for the community school, in cooperation with other interested stakeholders;

~~(IV)~~ ~~IDENTIFYING~~ ~~STUDENT~~ ~~HOUSEHOLDS~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~RENTAL~~ ~~ASSISTANCE~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~FAMILIES~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~FOR~~
~~§~~ ~~9.9–104.1~~~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~AIDING~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SCHOOL;~~~~ADMINISTRATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~AND~~

~~[(iv)]~~ ~~(V)~~ Coordinating support programs that address
out–of–school learning barriers for students and families, including:

1. Wraparound services; and

2. As appropriate:

A. Tutoring;

B. English language learner courses;

C. Early childhood development and parenting classes;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 211 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

D. College and career advising;

E. Employment opportunities;

F. Citizenship education;

[and]G. Food pantries;

H. RENTAL ASSISTANCE, §IN ACCORDANCE WITH
9.9–104.1 SUBTITLE;OF THIS AND

[H.] I. School–based behavioral and physical health
services.

(2) The needs assessment completed under this subsection shall:

(i) Be completed in collaboration with:

1. The principal;

2. A school health care practitioner; and

3. A parent teacher organization or a school council;

(ii) Include an assessment of the physical, behavioral, and mental
health needs and wraparound service needs of students, their families, and their
communities; and

(iii) Be submitted to the Department and the local school system
within 1 year of receiving a personnel grant under § 5–223 of this article or within 1 year
of becoming a community school.

(3) The implementation plan completed under this subsection shall
include:

(i) A strategy for providing wraparound services to address the
needs of the students, their families, and their communities, building on and strengthening
community resources near the school;

(ii) Inclusion, if possible and practicable, of community partners in
geographic proximity to the school that can assist in meeting the needs identified in the
assessment;

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 211

(iii) Ensure that time is made available to train staff on the supports
available, the need for the supports, and how to engage with the community schools
coordinator to access these supports; and

(iv) Develop strategies to maximize external non–State or non–local
education funding.

(4) (i) The implementation plan shall be submitted to the local school
system for approval within 1 year of completion of the needs assessment.

(ii) After the implementation plan is approved by the local school
system it shall be submitted to the Department.

9.9–104.1.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “FUND” RENTAL ASSISTANCE COMMUNITYMEANS THE FOR
SCHOOL FAMILIES FUND.

(3) “PROGRAM” RENTAL ASSISTANCE COMMUNITYMEANS THE FOR
SCHOOL FAMILIES PROGRAM.

(B) THERE RENTAL ASSISTANCE COMMUNITY SCHOOL FAMILIESIS A FOR
PROGRAM.

(C) (1) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE RENTAL
SCHOOLS.ASSISTANCE TO ELIGIBLE STUDENT HOUSEHOLDS AT COMMUNITY

(2) THE PROGRAM ~~DEPARTMENT,~~SHALL BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
DEPARTMENT HOUSING COMMUNITY~~IN~~ ~~CONSULTATION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ OF AND
DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT.IN CONSULTATION WITH THE

(D) TO PROGRAM,BE ELIGIBLE FOR RENTAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE A
BE:COMMUNITY SCHOOL STUDENT MUST

(1) ENROLLED IN A COMMUNITY SCHOOL THAT RECEIVES FUNDING
§ 5–223 ARTICLE;UNDER OF THIS AND

~~(2)~~ ~~COUNTED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~COMPENSATORY~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~ENROLLMENT~~ ~~AS~~
~~§~~ ~~5–222~~ ~~ARTICLE;~~~~DEFINED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(3)~~ (2) FROM ~~THAT:~~A HOUSEHOLD

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 211 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) THAT PROPERTY,IS HOUSED IN A RENTAL WHERE AT LEAST
INSTABILITY,ONE HOUSEHOLD MEMBER IS AT RISK OF HOMELESSNESS OR HOUSING
NOTICES,AS EVIDENCED BY PAST DUE RENT OR UTILITY UNSAFE LIVING
CONDITIONS, OR OTHER EVIDENCE DETERMINED BY THE ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~SCHOOLS~~
DEPARTMENT HOUSING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT;~~COORDINATOR~~ OF AND ~~AND~~
OR

(II) WHERE AT LEAST ONE MEMBER QUALIFIES FOR
MCKINNEY–VENTO HOMELESS ASSISTANCEASSISTANCE UNDER THE FEDERAL
ACT.

~~(4)~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOUSEHOLD~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~IS~~
~~HARDSHIP,~~~~EXPERIENCING~~ ~~FINANCIAL~~ ~~AS~~ ~~EVIDENCED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~RECEIPT~~ ~~OF~~
~~UNEMPLOYMENT~~ ~~BENEFITS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~EVIDENCE~~ ~~DETERMINED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~
~~COORDINATOR.~~~~SCHOOLS~~

(E) (1) ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~RENTAL~~ ~~AND~~ ~~UTILITY~~ ~~PAYMENTS~~
~~ON~~ ~~BEHALF~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~STUDENT~~ ~~HOUSEHOLDS~~ ~~DIRECTLY~~
~~HOUSEHOLD’S~~ ELIGIBLE~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~LANDLORD~~ ~~OR~~ ~~UTILITY~~ ~~COMPANY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ASSIST~~ ~~WITH~~
PROGRAM INCLUDE:USES FOR PAYMENTS UNDER THE

(I) RENTAL PAYMENTS;

(II) RENTAL ARREARS;

(III) FINES PAYMENTS,OR FEES ASSOCIATED WITH RENTAL
FEE;INCLUDING A LATE FINE OR

(IV) UTILITY PAYMENTS;

(V) UTILITY ARREARS; ~~OR~~

(VI) FINES PAYMENTS,OR FEES ASSOCIATED WITH UTILITY
FEE;INCLUDING A LATE FINE OR OR

(VII) RELOCATION EXPENSES.

(2) EXCEPT (3) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
STUDENT’S PROGRAMAN ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD MAY RECEIVE SUPPORT FROM THE
12 MONTHS.FOR UP TO

(3) SUBJECT FUNDING,TO THE AVAILABILITY OF AN ELIGIBLE
STUDENT’S 3–MONTHHOUSEHOLD MAY RECEIVE ONE EXTENSION OF SUPPORT IF

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 211

(D)THE COMMUNITY SCHOOL STUDENT REMAINS ELIGIBLE UNDER SUBSECTION OF
12 SUPPORT.THIS SECTION FOLLOWING MONTHS OF

~~(F)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COORDINATOR,~~ ~~SCHOOL,~~~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~SCHOOLS~~ ~~A~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~A~~
~~LOCAL~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~SYSTEM~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~IDENTIFY~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~STUDENT~~ ~~HOUSEHOLDS~~ ~~AND~~
~~(E)~~~~FACILITATE~~ ~~DIRECT~~ ~~PAYMENTS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~

~~(G)~~ (F) (1) THERE RENTAL ASSISTANCE COMMUNITYIS A FOR
SCHOOL FAMILIES FUND.

(2) THE DEPARTMENT HOUSING COMMUNITYOF AND
DEVELOPMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(3) (I) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(II) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL HOLD THE
SEPARATELY, COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(4) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(I) MONEY STATEAPPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE
FUND;

(II) INTEREST EARNINGS; AND

(III) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED
FUND.FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE

(5) THE FUND TO:MAY BE USED ONLY

(I) PROVIDE RENTAL ASSISTANCE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
PROGRAM; AND

(II) COVER DEPARTMENT HOUSINGTHE COSTS OF THE OF AND
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND.TO ADMINISTER THE

(6) ~~IN~~ ~~DETERMINING~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~STUDENT~~ ~~HOUSEHOLDS~~ ~~TO~~
~~PROGRAM,~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~SUPPORT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~GIVE~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~ ~~TO~~
~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~STUDENT~~ ~~HOUSEHOLDS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~COMMUNITY~~ ~~SCHOOLS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOWEST~~
~~HOUSEHOLDS.~~~~PROPORTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ELIGIBLE~~ ~~STUDENT~~

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 211 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(7)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2026,~~ THE GOVERNOR~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ MAY
$10,000,000INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF ~~OF~~
~~$10,000,000~~ FUND.FOR THE

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]189. the Teacher Retention and Development Fund;

Fund;190. the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant AND

191. RENTAL ASSISTANCE COMMUNITY SCHOOLTHE FOR
FAMILIES FUND.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 8 –