PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 312

Chapter 312

(House Bill 498)

AN ACT concerning

Real Property – Access to Counsel in Evictions Program – Mandated Reports

FOR the purpose of altering the information relating to the Access to Counsel in Evictions
Program required to be reported by the Maryland Legal Services Corporation each
year; and generally relating to mandated reports and the Access to Counsel in
Evictions Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Real Property
Section 8–901(a), (c), (d), (f), and (g) and 8–903
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Real Property
Section 8–907
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Real Property

8–901.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(c) “Covered individual” means an individual who:

(1) Occupies a residential property under a claim of legal right other than
owner, including a tenant in a building owned, operated, or managed by a public housing
authority; and

(2) Is a member of a household with an income that is not greater than 50%
of the median income, adjusted for household size, in the State as determined by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services or its successor.

(d) “Designated organization” means a nonprofit entity designated by MLSC with
the ability to provide legal representation to covered individuals.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 312 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(f) “Legal representation” includes all representation by an attorney beyond brief
legal advice and is not limited to the formal entry of appearance in court.

(g) “MLSC” means the Maryland Legal Services Corporation.

8–903.

(a) There is an Access to Counsel in Evictions Program administered by MLSC.

(b) The purpose of the Program is to organize and direct services and resources
in order to provide all covered individuals in the State with access to legal representation
as required under this subtitle.

8–907.

On or before August 31 each year, MLSC shall report to the Governor and, in
accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, the General Assembly THE
YEAR:FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING FISCAL

[individuals](1) The number of coveredCASES IN WHICH A INDIVIDUAL
[during year],provided legal representation the previous fiscalWAS DISAGGREGATED BY
TYPE, INCLUDING:CASE

(I) NONPAYMENT § 8–401 TITLE;OF RENT UNDER OF THIS

(II) TENANT § 8–402 TITLE;HOLDOVER UNDER OF THIS AND

(III) BREACH § 8–402.1 TITLE;OF LEASE UNDER OF THIS

[Information outcomes] THE(2) on and metrics evaluating case AMOUNT
[and]MANAGED;PAID TO ATTORNEYS FOR EACH CASE

[A tenants] THE(3) summary of the engagement and education of
CASES;GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF

(4) DATA DECIDED;ON THE DISPOSITION OF CASES

(5) THE STATEAMOUNT OF AND FEDERAL FUNDS ALLOCATED TO
ORGANIZATION;EACH DESIGNATED AND

(6) THE NUMBER OF COVERED INDIVIDUALS PROVIDED LEGAL
CASES.REPRESENTATION FOR MULTIPLE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 2 years and 9 months and, at the

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 312

end of June 30, 2027, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly,
shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 3 –