PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 568

Chapter 568

(House Bill 420)

AN ACT concerning

State and Local Parks – Play Area Accessibility – ~~Communication~~ ~~Boards~~
Recreation Communication Boards Pilot Program

FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Natural Resources and local governing
bodies to construct communication boards in certain newly constructed public play
areas under certain circumstances; authorizing the Department and local governing
bodies to construct communication boards when making alterations to certain
existing public play areas; ~~providing~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~funding~~ ~~of~~ ~~communication~~ ~~board~~
~~construction~~ establishing the Maryland Recreation Communication Boards Pilot
Program, subject to the availability of funding; altering the purpose and use of the
Park System Capital Improvements and Acquisition Fund; and generally relating to
play area communication boards.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 5–221(a), (c), (g), and (n)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 5–221(b) and 5–901(a) and (g)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Natural Resources
Section ~~5–2101~~ ~~through~~ ~~5–2103~~ 5–2B–01 through 5–2B–03 to be under the new
subtitle “Subtitle ~~21.~~ 2B. Play Area Accessibility”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

5–221.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 568 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) section[,](a) In this THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “Fund” means the Park System Capital Improvements and Acquisition
Fund.

(3) “MARYLAND RECREATION COMMUNICATION BOARDS PILOT
PROGRAM” MARYLAND RECREATION COMMUNICATION BOARDS PILOTMEANS THE
PROGRAM § 5–2B–03 TITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(b) There is a Park System Capital Improvements and Acquisition Fund.

(c) The purpose of the Fund is to provide funding for:

(1) Completing State park projects related to capital improvements on
[and]lands managed by the Department for public purposes;

(2) Acquiring land to be managed by the Department for public purposes
park;as a State AND

(3) THE MARYLAND RECREATION COMMUNICATION BOARDS PILOT
PROGRAM (N)(4) SECTION.IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS

(g) The Fund may be used only for:

(1) Completing State park projects related to capital improvements on
[and]lands managed by the Department for public purposes;

(2) Acquiring land to be managed by the Department for public purposes
park;as a State AND

(3) COVERING THE COSTS OF PURCHASING AND INSTALLING A
MARYLAND RECREATION COMMUNICATIONCOMMUNICATION BOARD UNDER THE
BOARDS PILOT PROGRAM.

(n) If the Fund receives more than $70,000,000, the Department may use up to
$10,000,000 for any of the purposes identified under subsection (l) of this section, including:

(1) Land activation;

[and](2) New structures;

(3) Any capital improvements necessary to make State parks accessible to
tables;people with disabilities, including providing adult changing AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 568

(4) UP $100,000 MARYLAND RECREATIONTO FOR THE
COMMUNICATION BOARDS PILOT PROGRAM.

~~5–901.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~In~~ ~~this~~ ~~subtitle~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~terms~~ ~~have~~ ~~the~~ ~~meanings~~ ~~indicated.~~

~~(g)~~ ~~“Local~~ ~~governing~~ ~~body”~~ ~~means~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland–National~~ ~~Capital~~ ~~Park~~ ~~and~~
~~Planning~~ ~~Commission~~ ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~governing~~ ~~body~~ ~~of~~ ~~any~~ ~~county~~ ~~or~~ ~~Baltimore~~ ~~City.~~

SUBTITLE ~~21.~~ 2B. PLAY AREA ACCESSIBILITY.

~~5–2101.~~ 5–2B–01.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) (1) “ALTERATION” MEANS A CHANGE TO AN EXISTING PLAY AREA
AREA.THAT AFFECTS THE USABILITY OF THE PLAY

(2) “ALTERATION” DOES NOT INCLUDE NORMAL MAINTENANCE TO
AREA.AN EXISTING PLAY AREA THAT DOES NOT AFFECT THE USABILITY OF THE PLAY

(C) “COMMUNICATION BOARD” PHOTOS,MEANS A DEVICE THAT DISPLAYS
SYMBOLS, OR ILLUSTRATIONS ~~TO~~ ~~ENABLE~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~LIMITED~~ ~~LANGUAGE~~
~~SKILLS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~EXPRESS~~ ~~THEMSELVES~~ ~~AND~~ ~~COMMUNICATE~~ WITH WORDS AND BRAILLE
TO SUPPLEMENT OR REPLACE SPOKEN LANGUAGE AS A MEANS OF EXPRESSION AND
COMMUNICATION.

(D) “LOCAL BODY” § 5–901GOVERNING HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF
TITLE.THIS

(E) “PILOT PROGRAM” MARYLAND RECREATIONMEANS THE
COMMUNICATION BOARDS PILOT PROGRAM § 5–2B–03ESTABLISHED UNDER OF
SUBTITLE.THIS

(F) “PLAY AREA” MEANS A PORTION OF A SITE CONTAINING PLAY
CHILDREN.COMPONENTS DESIGNED AND CONSTRUCTED FOR

~~(F)~~ (G) “SITE” MEANS:

(1) A PARCEL OF LAND WITH BOUNDARIES MARKED BY A PROPERTY
LINE; OR

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 568 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) A RIGHT–OF–WAY.DESIGNATED PORTION OF A PUBLIC

~~5–2102.~~ 5–2B–02.

(A) THIS SECTION APPLIES ONLY TO PLAY AREAS LOCATED WITHIN A
PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE
DEPARTMENT BODY.OR A LOCAL GOVERNING

(B) (1) ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~GOVERNING~~ ~~BODY~~
SUBJECT~~RESPONSIBLE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONSTRUCTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~PLAY~~ ~~AREAS~~ TO THE
PROGRAM, DEPARTMENTAVAILABILITY OF FUNDING UNDER THE PILOT THE SHALL
CONSTRUCT A COMMUNICATION BOARD IN EACH NEWLY CONSTRUCTED PLAY AREA
JURISDICTION.UNDER ITS

(2) EACH LOCAL GOVERNING BODY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION OF PLAY AREAS THAT RECEIVES A GRANT FROM THE PILOT
PROGRAM SHALL CONSTRUCT AT LEAST ONE COMMUNICATION BOARD IN EACH
JURISDICTION.NEWLY CONSTRUCTED PLAY AREA UNDER ITS

(C) THE DEPARTMENT AND EACH LOCAL GOVERNING BODY RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF PLAY AREAS MAY CONSTRUCT A COMMUNICATION
BOARD IN AN EXISTING PLAY AREA UNDER ITS JURISDICTION WHEN MAKING
AREA.ALTERATIONS TO THAT PLAY

~~5–2103.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~OPEN~~ ~~SPACE~~~~SHALL~~ ~~USE~~ ~~FUNDING~~
~~§~~ ~~5–904~~~~PROVIDED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONSTRUCTION~~ ~~OF~~
~~COMMUNICATION~~ ~~BOARDS~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PLAY~~ ~~AREAS~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~JURISDICTION.~~~~ITS~~

~~(B)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~OPEN~~~~LOCAL~~ ~~GOVERNING~~ ~~BODY~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~APPLY~~ ~~FOR~~
~~SPACE~~ ~~§~~ ~~5–905~~~~FUNDING~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONSTRUCTION~~ ~~OF~~
~~COMMUNICATION~~ ~~BOARDS~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PLAY~~ ~~AREAS~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~JURISDICTION.~~~~ITS~~

~~(2)~~ ~~EXCEPT~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~FUNDING~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CONSTRUCTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~COMMUNICATION~~ ~~BOARDS~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~BODY’S~~~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PLAY~~ ~~AREAS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~A~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~GOVERNING~~ ~~JURISDICTION~~
~~BODY.~~~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~GOVERNING~~

5–2B–03.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 568

(A) (1) THERE MARYLAND RECREATION COMMUNICATION BOARDSIS A
PILOT PROGRAM.

(2) THE TO,PURPOSE OF THE PILOT PROGRAM IS SUBJECT TO THE
FUNDING,AVAILABILITY OF IMPROVE PLAY AREA ACCESSIBILITY BY COVERING THE
STATECOSTS OF PURCHASING AND INSTALLING COMMUNICATION BOARDS AT AND
PARKS.LOCAL

(3) THE DEPARTMENT PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE PILOT

(B) (1) A DEPARTMENTLOCAL GOVERNING BODY MAY APPLY TO THE
PROGRAM.FOR A GRANT FROM THE PILOT

(2) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS AND
SECTION,IN AWARDING A GRANT TO A LOCAL GOVERNING BODY UNDER THIS THE
DEPARTMENT SHALL AWARD A GRANT EQUAL TO THE COST OF PURCHASING AND
BOARD.INSTALLING EACH COMMUNICATION

(II) A $3,000GRANT MAY NOT EXCEED FOR EACH
INSTALLED.COMMUNICATION BOARD THAT IS PURCHASED AND

(3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PRIORITIZE THE AWARD OF GRANTS TO
A LOCAL GOVERNING BODY THAT IS INSTALLING A COMMUNICATION BOARD IN A
AREA.NEWLY CONSTRUCTED PLAY

(C) (1) ON JULY 1, 2025, JULY 1, 2026,OR BEFORE AND THE
DEPARTMENT GENERAL ASSEMBLY,SHALL SUBMIT AN INTERIM REPORT TO THE IN
§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE THAT
PROGRAM.PROVIDES AN EVALUATION OF THE PILOT

(2) ON JULY 1, 2027, DEPARTMENTOR BEFORE THE SHALL SUBMIT
GENERAL ASSEMBLY, § 2–1257A FINAL REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, PROGRAM,THE ON THE PILOT INCLUDING A
CONTINUED.RECOMMENDATION ON WHETHER THE PILOT PROGRAM SHOULD BE

5–901.

(a) In this subtitle the following terms have the meanings indicated.

(g) “Local governing body” means the Maryland–National Capital Park and
Planning Commission and the governing body of any county or Baltimore City.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ July 1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 4 years and, at the end of June

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 568 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

30, 2028, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be
abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 6 –