PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 710

Chapter 710

(House Bill 582)

AN ACT concerning

Economic Development – Entrepreneurial Innovation Programs –
Establishment
(Pava LaPere Legacy of Innovation Act of 2024)

FOR the purpose of establishing the Pava LaPere Innovation Acceleration Grant Program
in the Maryland Technology Development Corporation to provide grants to certain
technology–based start–up companies; establishing the Baltimore Innovation
Initiative Pilot Program within the Maryland Innovation Initiative of the
Corporation; requiring certain appropriations for the programs to be included in the
annual budget bill in certain fiscal years; repealing a mandated appropriation for a
certain telework assistance grant program; and generally relating to development of
entrepreneurial innovation programs.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 5–1702(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing
Article – Economic Development
Section 5–1702(f)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 5–1702(g)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 10–462 and 10–462.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 710 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

5–1702.

(a) There is a Business Telework Assistance Grant Program in the Department.

[(f) For each fiscal year, the Governor shall include in the annual budget bill an
Program.]appropriation of $1,000,000 for the

[(g)] (F) The Secretary shall adopt regulations necessary to carry out this
section.

10–462.

(A) THERE PAVA LAPERE INNOVATION ACCELERATION GRANTIS A
PROGRAM CORPORATION.IN THE

(B) THE CORPORATION PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(C) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO FOSTER GROWTH OF THE
STATEENTREPRENEURIAL INNOVATION ECOSYSTEM IN THE BY PROVIDING GRANTS
TECHNOLOGY–BASED START–UP THAT:TO COMPANIES

(1) ARE FOUNDED BY STUDENTS ~~OR~~ ~~FACULTY~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ OF
~~BALTIMORE~~POSTSECONDARY INSTITUTIONS LOCATED IN THE
BALTIMORE–COLUMBIA–TOWSON METROPOLITAN STATISTICAL AREA; AND

(2) ~~BALTIMORE~~HAVE THEIR PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE
BALTIMORE–COLUMBIA–TOWSON METROPOLITAN STATISTICAL AREA.

(D) AN PROGRAMAPPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT AN APPLICATION FOR A
CORPORATION.AWARD AS REQUIRED BY THE

(E) THE PROGRAM SHALL REVIEW THE APPLICATION AND ALL SUPPORTING
MATERIALS TO EVALUATE WHETHER THE APPLICANT QUALIFIES FOR AN AWARD
PROGRAM.FROM THE

(F) (1) SUBJECT (2) (3) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS THE
PROGRAM $50,000 APPLICANT.SHALL AWARD TO EACH QUALIFYING

(2) A 20%QUALIFYING APPLICANT SHALL USE AT LEAST OF THE
THIRD–PARTY PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT,AWARD TO HIRE CONSULTANTS FOR
COMPLIANCE,REGULATORY OR OTHER TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE RELATED TO
START–UP COMPANY.ESTABLISHING THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 710

(3) THE CORPORATION MAY PROVIDE WAIVERS ON REQUEST BY AN
APPLICANT.

(G) (1) FOR YEAR, GOVERNOREACH FISCAL THE SHALL INCLUDE AN
PROGRAM BILL.APPROPRIATION FOR THE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET

(2) THE PROGRAM 10%MAY USE UP TO OF THE ANNUAL
EXPENSES, $50,000APPROPRIATION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE NOT TO EXCEED IN A
YEAR.SINGLE FISCAL

(H) THE CORPORATION SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS NECESSARY TO CARRY
SECTION.OUT THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Economic Development

10–462.1.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) (I) “ELIGIBLE UNIVERSITY” MEANS A PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
BALTIMORE–COLUMBIA–TOWSONCOLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY LOCATED WITHIN THE
METROPOLITAN STATISTICAL AREA.~~AREA~~

(II) “ELIGIBLE UNIVERSITY” INCLUDES:

1. ANNE ARUNDEL COMMUNITY COLLEGE;

2. BALTIMORE CITY COMMUNITY COLLEGE;

3. CARROLL COMMUNITY COLLEGE;

4. COMMUNITY COLLEGE BALTIMORE COUNTY;OF

5. COPPIN STATE UNIVERSITY;

6. GOUCHER COLLEGE;

7. HARFORD COMMUNITY COLLEGE;

8. HOWARD COMMUNITY COLLEGE;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 710 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

9. JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY;

10. LOYOLA UNIVERSITY MARYLAND;

11. MARYLAND INSTITUTE COLLEGE ART;OF

12. MCDANIEL COLLEGE;

13. MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY;

14. NOTRE DAME MARYLAND UNIVERSITY;OF

15. ST. JOHN’S COLLEGE;

16. STEVENSON UNIVERSITY;

17. TOWSON UNIVERSITY;

18. UNIVERSITY BALTIMORE;OF

19. UNIVERSITY MARYLAND, BALTIMORE CAMPUS;OF
AND

20. UNIVERSITY MARYLAND BALTIMORE COUNTY.OF

(3) “PILOT PROGRAM” BALTIMORE INNOVATIONMEANS THE
INITIATIVE PILOT PROGRAM.

(B) THERE BALTIMORE INNOVATION INITIATIVE PILOT PROGRAM.IS A

(C) THE PILOT PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE INCENTIVES
START–UPFOR AND GROW TECHNOLOGY COMPANIES FOUNDED BY STUDENTS OR
UNIVERSITIES.FACULTY AT ELIGIBLE

(D) THE INITIATIVE PILOTSHALL IMPLEMENT AND ADMINISTER THE
PROGRAM.

(E) THE INITIATIVE SHALL COLLABORATE WITH EACH PARTICIPATING
INITIATIVES,ELIGIBLE UNIVERSITY TO IDENTIFY AND SUPPORT ENTREPRENEURIAL
PARTNERSHIPS,INDUSTRY AND COMMERCIALIZATION OPPORTUNITIES RELATED
TECHNOLOGY.TO

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 710

(F) TO PILOT PROGRAM,QUALIFY FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE EACH
$50,000.ELIGIBLE UNIVERSITY SHALL PAY AN ANNUAL CONTRIBUTION OF UP TO

(G) (1) ONLY AN ELIGIBLE UNIVERSITY MAY SUBMIT PROJECT
PILOT PROGRAM.PROPOSALS FOR FUNDING UNDER THE

(2) TO PILOT PROGRAM,QUALIFY FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE A
MUST:PROJECT PROPOSAL

(I) TECHNOLOGY–BASEDSUPPORT THE CREATION OF A NEW
STATE;BUSINESS IN THE

(II) ADVANCE THE TECHNOLOGY TOWARD
SERVICE,COMMERCIALIZATION OF A PRODUCT OR WITH PREFERENCE FOR
PRODUCTS OR SERVICES THAT ALIGN WITH THE GOALS OF INTEGRATING
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE OR MACHINE LEARNING IN HEALTH CARE AND
STATE;BIOTECHNOLOGY SECTORS IN THE

(III) FOSTER EQUITABLE AND INCLUSIVE ENTREPRENEURIAL
UNIVERSITY;DEVELOPMENT AT THE ELIGIBLE

(IV) CREATE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEANINGFUL ECONOMIC
UNIVERSITY;IMPACT IN THE REGION AROUND THE ELIGIBLE OR

(V) FOSTER COLLABORATION BETWEEN THE ELIGIBLE
PARTNER, INCLUDING:UNIVERSITY AND AN INDUSTRY

1. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT WITH COMMERCIALIZATION
POTENTIAL; AND

2. MATCHING FUNDS PROVIDED BY THE INDUSTRY
PARTNER.

(H) (1) SUBJECT (2) (3) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS THE
INITIATIVE REVIEW, EVALUATE,SHALL DEVELOP CRITERIA TO AND RATE PROJECT
PILOT PROGRAM.PROPOSALS FOR FUNDING UNDER THE

(2) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INITIATIVEOF THE SHALL
DISTRIBUTE GRANTS TO PROJECTS BASED ON THE CRITERIA DEVELOPED IN
(1) SUBSECTION.ACCORDANCE WITH PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(3) THE INITIATIVE SHALL GIVE PRIORITY TO PROJECT PROPOSALS
BALTIMORETHAT ALIGN WITH THE MISSION OF THE TECH HUB OR ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE– SCIENCE–ORIENTED BUSINESSES.AND LIFE
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 710 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) (1) FOR 2025 2026, GOVERNORFISCAL YEARS AND THE SHALL
$1,500,000INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF FOR THE
PILOT PROGRAM.

(2) THE FUNDING PROVIDED IN THIS SUBSECTION SHALL BE USED TO
SUPPLEMENT, SUPPLANT,NOT ANY FUNDS THAT WOULD OTHERWISE BE PROVIDED
INITIATIVE.TO THE

(J) IN INITIATIVEADDITION TO INFORMATION ON THE INCLUDED IN THE
CORPORATION § 10–415 SUBTITLE,ANNUAL REPORT OF THE UNDER OF THIS ON OR
JULY 1, 2027, CORPORATION GENERALBEFORE THE SHALL REPORT TO THE
ASSEMBLY, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
PILOT PROGRAM.ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024. Section 2 of this Act shall remain effective for a period of 3 years and, at the end of
June 30, 2027, Section 2 of this Act, with no further action required by the General
Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 6 –