PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 158

Chapter 158

(House Bill 510)

AN ACT concerning

Business Facade Improvement Program – Eligible Funding Recipients

FOR the purpose of expanding the eligible recipients of funding provided by the
Department of Housing and Community Development under the Business Facade
Improvement Program to include certain community development organizations;
and generally relating to the Business Facade Improvement Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Housing and Community Development
Section 6–1101 and 6–1102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Housing and Community Development

6–1101.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

“COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION”(b) DEVELOPMENT MEANS AN ENTITY THAT
§ 6–203 TITLE.MEETS THE QUALIFICATIONS OF OF THIS

(C) “Program” means the Business Facade Improvement Program.

[(c)] (D) “Qualified business” means a business that:

(1) is located in a sustainable community; and

(2) plans to improve the outside appearance of the business’s building or
facility.

[(d)] (E) “Sustainable community” means an area designated as a sustainable
community under § 6–205 of this title.

6–1102.

(a) There is a Business Facade Improvement Program in the Department.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 158 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) The purpose of the Program is to assist qualified businesses with improving
the outside appearance of the businesses’ buildings and facilities.

to:(c) (1) The Department shall distribute funds from the Program

(I) political subdivisions that:

[(i)] 1. have at least one sustainable community; and

[(ii)] 2. funds;apply for the AND

(II) THAT:COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS

1. COMMUNITY;SERVE AT LEAST ONE SUSTAINABLE AND

2. FUNDS.APPLY FOR THE

(2) The Department shall develop:

[political subdivisions](i) an application process for APPLICANTS
seeking to participate in the Program; and

(ii) criteria for:

1. rating political subdivisions AND COMMUNITY
that apply for funds; andDEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS

2. awarding funds to political subdivisions AND
ORGANIZATIONS.COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

[political subdivision](d) (1) Each that receives funds underAPPLICANT
subsection (c) of this section shall distribute grants to qualified businesses that apply for a
grant.

(2) Each political subdivision AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
shall develop:ORGANIZATION

(i) a grant application process for qualified businesses seeking to
participate in the Program; and

(ii) criteria for:

1. rating qualified businesses that apply for grants; and

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 158

2. awarding grants to qualified businesses.

(e) For fiscal year 2025 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Governor shall include
in the annual budget bill an appropriation of $5,000,000 to the Program.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 3 –