PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1004

Chapter 1004

(House Bill 587)

AN ACT concerning

Frederick County – Alcoholic Beverages – Manufacturer’s Limited Beer, Wine,
and Liquor Permit

FOR the purpose of establishing a manufacturer’s limited beer, wine, and liquor permit in
Frederick County; authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Frederick
County to issue a permit to holders of certain manufacturer’s licenses; requiring the
Board to adopt certain regulations; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages in
Frederick County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 20–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 20–401
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 20–402.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

20–102.

This title applies only in Frederick County.

20–401.

(a) The following sections of Title 2, Subtitle 2 (“Manufacturer’s Licenses”) of
Division I of this article apply in the county without exception or variation:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1004 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) § 2–201 (“Issuance by Comptroller”);

[§(2) 2–202 (“Class 1 distillery license”);

(3)] § 2–203 (“Class 9 limited distillery license”);

[(4)] (3) § 2–204 (“Class 2 rectifying license”);

[(5) § 2–207 (“Class 5 brewery license”);

(6)] (4) § 2–210 (“Class 8 farm brewery license”);

[(7)] (5) § 2–211 (“Residency requirement”);

[(8)] (6) § 2–212 (“Additional licenses”);

[(9)] (7) § 2–213 (“Additional fees”);

[(10)] (8) § 2–214 (“Sale or delivery restricted”);

[(11)] (9) § 2–215 (“Beer sale on credit to retail dealer prohibited”);

[(12)] (10) § 2–216 (“Interaction between manufacturing entities and
retailers”);

[(13)] (11) § 2–217 (“Distribution of alcoholic beverages — Prohibited
practices”); and

[(14)] (12) § 2–218 (“Restrictive agreements between producers and
retailers — Prohibited”).

(b) The following sections of Title 2, Subtitle 2 (“Manufacturer’s Licenses”) of
Division I of this article apply in the county:

(1) § 2–202 (“CLASS 1 LICENSE”), §DISTILLERY SUBJECT TO
20–402.1 SUBTITLE;OF THIS

[(1)] (2) § 2–205 (“Class 3 winery license”), subject to § 20–403 of this
subtitle;

[(2)] (3) § 2–206 (“Class 4 limited winery license”), subject to § 20–404 of
this subtitle;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1004

(4) § 2–207 (“CLASS 5 LICENSE”), § 20–402.1BREWERY SUBJECT TO
SUBTITLE;OF THIS

[(3)] (5) § 2–208 (“Class 6 pub–brewery license”), subject to § 20–405 of
this subtitle; and

[(4)] (6) § 2–209 (“Class 7 micro–brewery license”), subject to § 20–406 of
this subtitle.

20–402.1.

(A) THERE MANUFACTURER’S BEER, WINE,IS A LIMITED AND LIQUOR
PERMIT.

(B) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE THE PERMIT TO A HOLDER OF A
MANUFACTURER’S ON–SITELICENSE WITH A LOCAL CONSUMPTION PERMIT UNDER
§ 2–202 § 2–207 ARTICLE.OR OF THIS

(C) (1) (I) ~~THE~~ SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
THE PERMIT AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO ALLOW A LICENSED CATERER OR OTHER
BEER, WINE,CONTRACTED PARTY TO PROVIDE SEALED AND LIQUOR PRODUCTS NOT
ON–PREMISESMANUFACTURED BY THE HOLDER DURING PRIVATE EVENTS FOR
MANUFACTURER’S LICENSE.CONSUMPTION AT THE PREMISES LICENSED FOR THE

(II) THE HOLDER MAY NOT HAVE A DIRECT OR INDIRECT
PARTY.PECUNIARY INTEREST IN THE LICENSED CATERER OR OTHER CONTRACTED

(2) THE HOLDER MAY NOT ALLOW PATRONS WHO ARE VISITING ANY
MANUFACTURER’SPART OF THE LICENSED PREMISES THAT IS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
HELD.TO ENTER THE PRIVATE EVENT AREA WHILE THE PRIVATE EVENT IS BEING

(D) THE BOARDHOLDER SHALL REQUEST APPROVAL FROM THE BEFORE
EVENT.EACH

(E) THE BOARD SECTION,SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS
INCLUDING:

(1) EVENTS;CRITERIA FOR APPROVING AND

(2) FEE.SETTING THE ANNUAL PERMIT

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 1004 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 4 –