PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 364

Chapter 364

(House Bill 541)

AN ACT concerning

Anne Arundel County – Student Loan Assistance Repayment Program for
Educators – Established

FOR the purpose of establishing the Anne Arundel County Student Loan Assistance
Repayment Program for Educators to assist in the repayment of certain student
loans owed by educators who meet certain eligibility requirements; authorizing the
governing body of Anne Arundel County to establish the Program for educators
employed by the Anne Arundel County Public School System; requiring the county
to establish the amount and terms and conditions of the Program; and generally
relating to the establishment of the Anne Arundel County Student Loan Assistance
Repayment Program for Educators.

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 18–4001 through 18–4005 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 40. Anne
Arundel County Student Loan Assistance Repayment Program for Educators”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

SUBTITLE 40. ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY STUDENT LOAN ASSISTANCE REPAYMENT
PROGRAM EDUCATORS.FOR

18–4001.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “EDUCATOR” TEACHER,INCLUDES A CLASSROOM AN EDUCATION
PROFESSIONAL, EDUCATION–RELATED PROVIDER,SUPPORT AN SERVICE AND A
STATE DEPARTMENTSPECIALIST ELIGIBLE FOR CERTIFICATION FROM THE OF
EDUCATION.

~~(B)~~ (C) “HIGHER LOAN”EDUCATION MEANS ANY LOAN FOR
TUITION,UNDERGRADUATE OR GRADUATE STUDY THAT IS OBTAINED FOR
EXPENSES, FROM:EDUCATIONAL OR LIVING EXPENSES
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 364 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) A UNIVERSITY, GOVERNMENT,COLLEGE OR OR COMMERCIAL
SOURCE; OR

(2) AN ORGANIZATION, INSTITUTION, ASSOCIATION,AN AN A
SOCIETY, § 501(C)(3)OR A CORPORATION THAT IS EXEMPT FROM TAXATION UNDER
(4) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE 1986.OR OF THE OF

~~(C)~~ (D) “PROGRAM” ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY STUDENTMEANS THE
LOAN ASSISTANCE REPAYMENT PROGRAM EDUCATORS.FOR

18–4002.

(A) IN ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY, THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE COUNTY
MAY ESTABLISH A STUDENT LOAN ASSISTANCE REPAYMENT PROGRAM FOR
ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM.EDUCATORS EMPLOYED BY THE

(B) THE PROGRAM ATTRACT, RECRUIT,PURPOSE OF THE IS TO AND RETAIN
ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTYA DIVERSE CADRE OF QUALIFIED EDUCATORS IN THE
PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM THAT IS REFLECTIVE OF THE STUDENT POPULATION
SCHOOLS.WITHIN THE COUNTY

(C) SUBJECT (D) SECTION,TO SUBSECTION OF THIS THE COUNTY SHALL
ASSIST IN THE REPAYMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION LOANS OWED BY AN INDIVIDUAL
WHO:

(1) RECEIVES GRADUATE, PROFESSIONAL,A OR UNDERGRADUATE
UNIVERSITY;DEGREE FROM AN ACCREDITED COLLEGE OR

(2) OBTAINS ANNE ARUNDELEMPLOYMENT AS AN EDUCATOR IN THE
COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM;

(3) COMMITS ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY PUBLICTO SERVE IN THE
SCHOOL SYSTEM 5 YEARS;FOR A PERIOD OF NOT LESS THAN

(4) RECEIVES AN INCOME THAT IS LESS THAN THE MAXIMUM
COUNTY,ELIGIBLE TOTAL INCOME LEVELS ESTABLISHED BY THE INCLUDING ANY
EARN;ADDITIONAL SOURCES OF INCOME THE INDIVIDUAL MAY

(5) IS LOAN;NOT IN DEFAULT ON ANY STUDENT AND

(6) SATISFIES ANY OTHER CRITERIA ESTABLISHED UNDER THE
PROGRAM COUNTY.BY THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 364

(D) AN APPLICANT FOR ASSISTANCE IN THE REPAYMENT OF A COMMERCIAL
LOAN SHALL DEMONSTRATE TO THE COUNTY THAT THE COMMERCIAL LOAN WAS
TUITION, EXPENSES,USED FOR EDUCATIONAL OR LIVING EXPENSES FOR GRADUATE
STUDY.OR UNDERGRADUATE

18–4003.

LOAN PROGRAMASSISTANCE UNDER THE SHALL BE IN THE AMOUNT AND ON
COUNTY.THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS ESTABLISHED BY THE

18–4004.

THE PROGRAM ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTYSHALL BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM.

18–4005.

(A) FUNDS PROGRAMFOR THE SHALL BE AS PROVIDED ON AN ANNUAL
BASIS IN THE COUNTY BUDGET IN AN APPROPRIATION SEPARATE FROM THE
COUNTY’S ANNE ARUNDELAPPROPRIATION TO THE OPERATING BUDGET OF THE
COUNTY BOARD EDUCATION.OF

(B) FUNDS PROGRAMFOR THE MAY BE USED TO COVER ADMINISTRATIVE
PROGRAM.EXPENSES OF THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 3 –