PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

Chapter 123

(House Bill 599)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Community Investment Corporation – Establishment
(Housing and Community Development Financing Act of 2024)

FOR the purpose of establishing the Maryland Community Investment Corporation as an
independent unit to make investments in certain low–income communities;
authorizing the Board of Directors of the Corporation to establish a certain advisory
committee and requiring the Corporation to establish an investment committee;
requiring the Corporation to apply for an allocation of federal new markets tax
credits; establishing eligible uses of money of the Corporation; expanding the eligible
uses of the Strategic Demolition and Smart Growth Impact Fund to include grants
and loans for ~~debt~~ ~~payments~~ ~~and~~ ~~for~~ credit enhancement for certain projects; and
generally relating to community investment, the Maryland Community Investment
Corporation, and the Strategic Demolition and Smart Growth Impact Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 9–101(a), (c), and (e)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 10–1101 through 10–1123 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 11.
Maryland Community Investment Corporation”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Housing and Community Development
Section 4–508
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

9–101.

(a) In this division the following words have the meanings indicated.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(c) “Department” means the Department of Commerce.

(e) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Commerce.

SUBTITLE 11. MARYLAND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT CORPORATION.

10–1101.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “BOARD” BOARD DIRECTORS CORPORATION.MEANS THE OF OF THE

(C) “CORPORATION” MARYLAND COMMUNITY INVESTMENTMEANS THE
CORPORATION.

(D) “INVESTMENT COMMITTEE” MEANS A COMMITTEE APPOINTED BY THE
BOARD TO ADVISE ON AND APPROVE INVESTMENTS AS REQUIRED UNDER THIS
SUBTITLE.

(E) “LOW–INCOME COMMUNITY” STATEMEANS A COMMUNITY IN THE THAT
LOW–INCOME 26 U.S.C. §MEETS THE DEFINITION OF A COMMUNITY UNDER
45D(E)(1).

(F) “NEW CREDIT”MARKETS TAX MEANS THE FEDERAL TAX CREDITS
26 U.S.C. § 45D.ALLOCATED UNDER

(G) “QUALIFIED ENTITY”COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT MEANS AN ENTITY
THAT MEETS THE DEFINITION OF A QUALIFIED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ENTITY
26 U.S.C. § 45D(C)(1).UNDER

(H) “QUALIFIED INVESTMENT”EQUITY MEANS AN INVESTMENT THAT
26 U.S.C. §MEETS THE DEFINITION OF A QUALIFIED EQUITY INVESTMENT UNDER
45D(B)(1).

10–1102.

THIS SUBTITLE SHALL BE LIBERALLY CONSTRUED TO CARRY OUT THE
SUBTITLE.PURPOSES OF THIS

10–1103.

(A) THERE MARYLAND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT CORPORATION.IS A

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(B) THE CORPORATION IS A BODY POLITIC AND CORPORATE AND IS AN
STATE.INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE

10–1104.

THE CORPORATION TO:PURPOSES OF THE ARE

(1) DO ALL THINGS NECESSARY TO QUALIFY AS A QUALIFIED
ENTITY;COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

(2) U.S. DEPARTMENT TREASURYAPPLY TO THE OF THE TO BE
ENTITY;DESIGNATED AS A QUALIFIED COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

(3) U.S. DEPARTMENT TREASURYAPPLY TO THE OF THE FOR AN
CREDITS;ALLOCATION OF NEW MARKETS TAX

(4) RECEIVE, MAKE, AND FACILITATE QUALIFIED EQUITY
LOW–INCOMEINVESTMENTS AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE IN
STATE;COMMUNITIES IN THE

(5) ALLOCATE ANY NEW MARKETS TAX CREDITS RECEIVED BY THE
CORPORATION;

(6) COORDINATE WITH OTHER QUALIFIED COMMUNITY
STATE LOW–INCOMEDEVELOPMENT ENTITIES IN THE TO HELP ENSURE THAT
COMMUNITIES ARE RECEIVING THE MAXIMUM BENEFIT OF QUALIFIED EQUITY
STATE;INVESTMENTS IN THE

(7) MAKE INVESTMENTS AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE TO
LOW–INCOME STATE CORPORATION’SCOMMUNITIES IN THE FROM THE MONEY OR
SOURCE;FROM ANY OTHER

(8) LONG–TERMBUILD A FINANCIAL CAPACITY AND SUSTAINED
LOW–INCOME STATE;INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITIES IN THE

(9) FOLLOW–ONCOORDINATE AND CREATE PATHWAYS TO FINANCING
STATE;IN THE AND

(10) FOSTER INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND
STATE,INNOVATION THROUGHOUT THE WHICH MAY INCLUDE INITIATIVES TO RAISE
LOW–INCOME COMMUNITIES.AWARENESS OF PROGRAMS TO ASSIST

10–1105.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) A BOARD DIRECTORS CORPORATIONOF SHALL MANAGE THE AND ITS
POWERS.UNITS AND EXERCISE ITS CORPORATE

(B) THE BOARD MEMBERS:CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING

(1) COMPTROLLER COMPTROLLER’S DESIGNEE;THE OR THE

(2) SECRETARY SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;THE OR THE

(3) SECRETARY HOUSING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTTHE OF AND
SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

(4) SECRETARY PLANNING SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;THE OF OR THE

(5) SECRETARY GENERAL SERVICES SECRETARY’STHE OF OR THE
DESIGNEE; AND

(6) GOVERNORTHE FOLLOWING MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE WITH
SENATE:THE ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE

(I) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF NONPROFIT ENTITIES IN THE
STATE; AND

(II) LOW–INCOME COMMUNITIES.ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF

(C) A BOARD STATE.MEMBER OF THE SHALL RESIDE IN THE

(D) IN BOARD, GOVERNORMAKING APPOINTMENTS TO THE THE SHALL
CONSIDER:

(1) DIVERSITY; AND

(2) STATE.ALL GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS OF THE

(E) A BOARD:MEMBER OF THE

(1) BOARD;MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

(F) (1) THE 4 YEARS.TERM OF AN APPOINTED MEMBER IS

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(2) THE TERMS OF THE APPOINTED MEMBERS ARE STAGGERED AS
OCTOBER 1, 2024.REQUIRED BY THE TERMS PROVIDED FOR MEMBERS ON

(3) AT TERM,THE END OF A AN APPOINTED MEMBER CONTINUES TO
QUALIFIES.SERVE UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND

(4) A MEMBER WHO IS APPOINTED AFTER A TERM HAS BEGUN SERVES
ONLY FOR THE REST OF THE TERM AND UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND
QUALIFIES.

(G) (1) THIS SUBSECTION APPLIES TO A MEMBER WHO IS APPOINTED BY
GOVERNOR (B)(6) SECTION.THE UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

(2) THE GOVERNOR MAY REMOVE AN APPOINTED MEMBER FOR
INCOMPETENCE, MISCONDUCT, OR FAILURE TO PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE
POSITION.

10–1106.

THE BOARD MEMBERS.SHALL ELECT A CHAIR FROM AMONG ITS

10–1107.

(A) FOUR BOARD QUORUM.MEMBERS OF THE ARE A

(B) A MAJORITY VOTE OF THE MEMBERS PRESENT AT A MEETING HAVING A
CORPORATION ACT.QUORUM IS NEEDED FOR THE TO

10–1108.

(A) THE BOARD COMMITTEE.SHALL APPOINT MEMBERS OF AN ADVISORY

(B) THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE SHALL BE COMPOSED
ARE:OF MEMBERS WHO

(1) CORPORATIONREQUIRED FOR THE TO QUALIFY AS A QUALIFIED
26 U.S.C. § 45D(C)(1);COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ENTITY UNDER

(2) STATE;RESIDENTS OF THE AND

(3) GEOGRAPHICALLY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE LOCATIONS OF
LOW–INCOME STATE.COMMUNITIES IN THE

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) THE BOARD SHALL ADOPT POLICIES ESTABLISHING THE
COMMITTEE.RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ADVISORY

(D) THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE SHALL PRIORITIZE PROJECTS OWNED OR
OPERATED BY ENTITIES THAT HAVE THEIR PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE
STATE LOW–INCOMEWHEN ADVISING ON INVESTMENTS MADE IN COMMUNITIES IN
STATE.THE

10–1109.

(A) THE CORPORATION COMMITTEE.SHALL ESTABLISH AN INVESTMENT

(B) THE CORPORATION ESTABLISHING:SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS

(1) COMMITTEE;THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE INVESTMENT AND

(2) THE PROCEDURES FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF INVESTMENT
MEMBERS.COMMITTEE

(C) MEMBERS OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE SHALL BE
LOW–INCOMEGEOGRAPHICALLY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE LOCATIONS OF
STATE.COMMUNITIES IN THE

(D) THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE SHALL PRIORITIZE PROJECTS THAT ARE
OWNED OR OPERATED BY ENTITIES THAT HAVE THEIR PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
STATE.BUSINESS IN THE

10–1110.

(A) THE CORPORATION CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.SHALL EMPLOY A

(B) THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SHALL HAVE EXPERIENCE WITH AND
POSSESS QUALIFICATIONS RELEVANT TO THE ACTIVITIES AND PURPOSES OF THE
CORPORATION.

(C) THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MAY NOT BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD.

10–1111.

(A) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL IS THE LEGAL ADVISOR TO THE
CORPORATION.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(B) (1) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL CORPORATIONSHALL ASSIGN TO THE
ATTORNEYS GENERAL.ASSISTANT

(2) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SHALL DESIGNATE ONE ASSISTANT
ATTORNEY GENERAL CORPORATION.AS GENERAL COUNSEL TO THE

(3) (I) THE CORPORATION SHALL:GENERAL COUNSEL TO THE

1. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER,ADVISE THE THE
BOARD, CORPORATIONAND ANY OTHER OFFICIAL OF THE AS REQUESTED BY THE
CORPORATION;

2. ATTORNEYSSUPERVISE THE OTHER ASSISTANT
GENERAL CORPORATION;ASSIGNED TO THE AND

3. CORPORATIONPERFORM FOR THE OTHER DUTIES
ATTORNEY GENERAL ASSIGNS.THE

(II) THE GENERAL COUNSEL MAY NOT PROVIDE ANY OTHER
(I) PARAGRAPH.ASSISTANCE NOT SPECIFIED IN SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS

(C) WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL, CORPORATIONTHE APPROVAL OF THE THE
ATTORNEYS.MAY RETAIN ANY ADDITIONAL NECESSARY

10–1112.

(A) THE DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT HOUSINGAND THE OF AND
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATIONMAY PROVIDE STAFF TO THE AS
STATE BUDGET.PROVIDED IN THE

(B) THE CORPORATION ACCOUNTANTS,MAY RETAIN ANY NECESSARY
ENGINEERS, ADVISORS, CONSULTANTS.FINANCIAL OR OTHER

10–1113.

(A) EXCEPT (B), (C), (E)AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTIONS AND OF THIS
SECTION, CORPORATION TITLE 10 DIVISION IITHE IS EXEMPT FROM AND OF THE
STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.AND

(B) THE CORPORATION PUBLIC INFORMATION ACT.IS SUBJECT TO THE

(C) THE BOARD, CORPORATION,THE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE
COMMITTEE,MEMBERS OF THE INVESTMENT AND MEMBERS OF ANY ADVISORY
PUBLIC ETHICS LAW.COMMITTEE APPOINTED ARE SUBJECT TO THE
– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(D) THE CORPORATIONOFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE ARE NOT
DIVISION I STATE PERSONNELSUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF OF THE AND
PENSIONS ARTICLE STATE PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.THAT GOVERN THE

(E) (1) THE CORPORATION, BOARD,THE AND EMPLOYEES OF THE
CORPORATION TITLE 12, SUBTITLE 4 STATE FINANCEARE SUBJECT TO OF THE AND
PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.

(2) THE BOARD, THE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE
CORPORATION, COMMITTEE,THE MEMBERS OF THE INVESTMENT AND THE
MEMBERS OF ANY ADVISORY COMMITTEE APPOINTED SHALL DISCLOSE TO THE
STATE ETHICS COMMISSION WHETHER THEY ARE EMPLOYED BY OR HAVE A
FINANCIAL INTEREST IN AN ENTITY THAT CURRENTLY HAS OR WILL APPLY FOR
CORPORATION.FUNDS OR AN INVESTMENT IN A PROGRAM ADMINISTERED BY THE

(F) FOR OPEN MEETINGS ACT,PURPOSES OF THE A PROJECT SITE VISIT OR
EDUCATIONAL FIELD TOUR MAY NOT BE CONSIDERED A MEETING OF THE
CORPORATION CONDUCTED.IF NO ORGANIZATIONAL BUSINESS IS

10–1114.

(A) THE CORPORATION SHALL ESTABLISH A SYSTEM OF FINANCIAL
ACCOUNTING, CONTROLS, AUDITS, REPORTS.AND

(B) THE CORPORATION JULY 1FISCAL YEAR OF THE BEGINS ON AND ENDS
JUNE 30.ON THE FOLLOWING

10–1115.

(A) THE CORPORATION MAY CREATE AND ADMINISTER THE ACCOUNTS
REQUIRES.THAT IT

(B) THE CORPORATION STATESHALL DEPOSIT ITS MONEY INTO A OR
NATIONAL BANK OR A FEDERALLY INSURED SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION THAT
PAID–IN $1,000,000.HAS A TOTAL CAPITAL OF AT LEAST

(C) THE CORPORATION MAY DESIGNATE THE TRUST DEPARTMENT OF A
STATE BANK, BANK,NATIONAL OR SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION AS A
CORPORATIONDEPOSITORY TO RECEIVE SECURITIES THAT THE OWNS OR
ACQUIRES.

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(D) UNLESS CORPORATIONAN AGREEMENT OR COVENANT BETWEEN THE
INVESTMENTS,AND THE HOLDERS OF ITS OBLIGATIONS LIMITS CLASSES OF THE
CORPORATION OF,MAY INVEST ITS MONEY IN BONDS OR OTHER OBLIGATIONS OR
BY, UNITED STATES,GUARANTEED AS TO PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST THE THE
STATE, UNIT.OR A GOVERNMENTAL

(E) ANY CORPORATION,INCOME FROM THE INVESTMENT OF MONEY OF THE
EARNINGS,INCLUDING INVESTMENT PROCEEDS AND SHALL BE CREDITED TO THE
CORPORATION.

10–1116.

THE CORPORATION MAY:

(1) BUSINESS;ADOPT BYLAWS FOR THE CONDUCT OF ITS

(2) SEAL;ADOPT A

(3) STATE;MAINTAIN OFFICES AT A PLACE IT DESIGNATES IN THE

(4) LOANS, GRANTS, INVESTMENTS,ACCEPT OR ASSISTANCE OF ANY
STATE GOVERNMENT, GOVERNMENT,KIND FROM THE FEDERAL OR A LOCAL A
UNIVERSITY, SOURCE;COLLEGE OR OR A PRIVATE

(5) INSTRUMENTS;ENTER INTO CONTRACTS AND OTHER LEGAL

(6) SUED;SUE OR BE

(7) ACQUIRE, PURCHASE, HOLD, LESSEE, USE:LEASE AS AND

(I) FRANCHISE, PATENT, LICENSE;A OR

(II) REAL, PERSONAL, MIXED, TANGIBLE,ANY OR INTANGIBLE
PROPERTY; OR

(III) ITEM;AN INTEREST IN THE PROPERTY LISTED IN THIS

(8) SELL, LESSOR, TRANSFER, LICENSE, ASSIGN,LEASE AS OR
ACQUIRES;DISPOSE OF PROPERTY OR A PROPERTY INTEREST THAT IT

(9) RATES, RENTALS, FEES, ROYALTIES,FIX AND COLLECT AND
AVAILABLE;CHARGES FOR SERVICES AND RESOURCES IT PROVIDES OR MAKES

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(10) CREATE, OWN, CONTROL, CORPORATION,OR BE A MEMBER OF A
COMPANY, PARTNERSHIP, ENTITY,LIMITED LIABILITY OR OTHER WHETHER
PROFIT;OPERATED FOR PROFIT OR NOT FOR

(11) EXERCISE POWER USUALLY POSSESSED BY A PRIVATE
CORPORATION IN PERFORMING SIMILAR FUNCTIONS UNLESS TO DO SO WOULD
STATE LAW;CONFLICT WITH AND

(12) DO ALL THINGS NECESSARY OR CONVENIENT TO CARRY OUT THIS
SUBTITLE.

10–1117.

THE BOARD SHALL:

(1) DEVELOP A PUBLIC AND INTERNAL STRATEGIC PLAN THAT
INCLUDES:

(I) MEASURES;PERFORMANCE GOALS AND

(II) VALUES;A MISSION STATEMENT AND CORE

(III) STRENGTHS, WEAKNESSES,AN ANALYSIS OF
OPPORTUNITIES, THREATS;AND

(IV) PLANS;ACTION AND

(V) LONG–TERM OBJECTIVES;YEARLY AND GOALS AND

(2) REVIEW STRATEGIC PLANS AND UPDATE THE PLANS ANNUALLY
PERFORMANCE;TO MEASURE

(3) CHIEF EXECUTIVEAPPROVE COMPENSATION PLANS FOR THE
OFFICER CORPORATION;AND EMPLOYEES OF THE

(4) DESIGNATE A PERSON TO REVIEW AND APPROVE EXPENSE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERREIMBURSEMENTS OF THE AND EMPLOYEES OF THE
CORPORATION BOARD;IN ACCORDANCE WITH STANDARDS ESTABLISHED BY THE

(5) DESIGNATE A PERSON TO RECEIVE ETHICS COMPLAINTS AND ANY
BOARD, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER,COMPLAINTS INVOLVING THE THE AND
CORPORATION;EMPLOYEES OF THE

(6) GOVERN:ESTABLISH POLICIES THAT

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(I) SEVERANCE PACKAGES FOR EMPLOYEES THAT
EMPLOYMENT;INVOLUNTARILY LEAVE

(II) EMPLOYEES;TUITION REIMBURSEMENT AND LIMITS FOR

(III) ELIGIBLE EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT REQUIREMENTS
INCLUDE:THAT

1. THE TYPES OF EXPENSES THAT ARE CONSIDERED
CORPORATION FUNCTIONS;PART OF

2. LIMITS ON REIMBURSEMENTS AND TIME FRAMES FOR
SUBMISSION; AND

3. ALLOWABLE TRAVEL EXPENSES INCLUDING ANY
OUT–OF–STATE TRAVEL;

(IV) CORPORATION EQUIPMENT,THE USE OF ALL PERSONAL
PROPERTY, AND REAL PROPERTY AND WHETHER ANY PROPERTY MAY BE
EMPLOYEE;TRANSFERRED TO A DEPARTING AND

(V) WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINTS AND PROTECTIONS FOR
COMPLAINTS;THOSE FILING AND

(7) CHIEFCONDUCT AN ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW OF THE
OPERATING OFFICER.

10–1118.

(A) EXCEPT (C) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
CORPORATION MAY MAKE QUALIFIED EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL
LOW–INCOMEASSISTANCE AVAILABLE TO PROJECTS IN COMMUNITIES IF THE
INVESTMENTS ARE MADE ON REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A WRITTEN APPLICATION
CONTAINS:THAT

(1) SUFFICIENT INFORMATION TO VERIFY THAT THE PROJECT IS IN
STATE;THE AND

(2) A CERTIFICATION OF THE VERACITY OF THE INFORMATION BY AN
APPLICANT.AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY OF THE

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) IN CORPORATION,REGARD TO ANY AND ALL PROGRAMS OF THE EXCEPT
SUBTITLE, CORPORATIONAS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS THE SHALL ADOPT
SPECIFY:REGULATIONS TO GOVERN INVESTMENTS UNDER THIS SUBSECTION THAT

(1) THE TYPES OF BUSINESSES AND PROJECTS IN WHICH AN
MADE;INVESTMENT MAY BE

(2) THE BASIC STANDARDS AN ENTERPRISE SHALL MEET TO QUALIFY
INVESTMENT;FOR AN

(3) INVESTMENT;THE AMOUNT OF MONEY AVAILABLE FOR

(4) CORPORATIONTHE INVESTMENT POLICY STATEMENT OF THE
PROCEDURES, CRITERIA, PHILOSOPHY,THAT DESCRIBES THE INVESTMENT AND
CORPORATION’SGUIDELINES FOR HOW THE INVESTMENT DECISIONS WILL BE
MADE; AND

(5) A PROCESS FOR CONSIDERING WHETHER INVESTMENTS HELP TO
ENTREPRENEURSHIP,FOSTER INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE INCLUDING THE
CORPORATION’S LOW–INCOME COMMUNITIES.SUPPORT FOR

(C) THE CORPORATION MAY MAKE INVESTMENTS UNDER AN AGREEMENT
BOARD TRUSTEES STATE RETIREMENT PENSIONWITH THE OF FOR THE AND
SYSTEM § 21–123.2 STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONS ARTICLE.UNDER OF THE AND

10–1119.

THE CORPORATION MAY:

(1) PROVIDE EQUITY INVESTMENT TO A QUALIFIED BUSINESS OR
GRANT, LOAN, ALLOCATION,PROJECT IN THE FORM OF A TAX CREDIT OR ANY OTHER
PURPOSES;FORM OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO CARRY OUT ITS

(2) ACQUIRE, DEVELOP, IMPROVE, MANAGE, MARKET, LICENSE,
SUBLICENSE, MAINTAIN, LESSEE,LEASE AS LESSOR OR OR OPERATE A PROJECT IN
STATE PURPOSES;THE TO CARRY OUT ITS AND

(3) ACQUIRE, INDIRECTLY,DIRECTLY OR FROM A PERSON OR
SUBDIVISION, PURCHASE, GIFT, DEVISE, PROPERTY,POLITICAL BY OR ANY
RIGHTS–OF–WAY, FRANCHISES, EASEMENTS, LAND,OR OTHER INTERESTS IN
RIGHTS:INCLUDING SUBMERGED LAND AND RIPARIAN

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(I) AS NECESSARY OR CONVENIENT TO IMPROVE OR OPERATE
PURPOSES;A PROJECT TO CARRY OUT ITS AND

(II) ON THE TERMS AND AT THE PRICES THAT THE
CORPORATION REASONABLE.CONSIDERS

10–1120.

A DEBT, CLAIM, OBLIGATION, CORPORATIONOR LIABILITY OF THE OR ANY
NOT:SUBSIDIARY IS

(1) DEBT, CLAIM, OBLIGATION, STATE,A OR LIABILITY OF THE A UNIT
STATE, STATE STATEOR INSTRUMENTALITY OF THE OR OF A OFFICER OR
EMPLOYEE; OR

(2) STATE.A PLEDGE OF THE CREDIT OF THE

10–1121.

THE CORPORATION STATE TAXES.IS EXEMPT FROM AND LOCAL

10–1122.

(A) THE CORPORATIONBOOKS AND RECORDS OF THE ARE SUBJECT TO
AUDIT:

(1) STATE;AT ANY TIME BY THE AND

(2) AUDITOR,EACH YEAR BY AN INDEPENDENT INCLUDING AN
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT UNDER GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING
PRINCIPLES.

(B) THE CORPORATION SHALL CONDUCT AN INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT
BOARD CORPORATION 5 YEARS.OF THE AND THE EVERY

10–1123.

(A) (1) ON OCTOBER 1 YEAR, CORPORATIONOR BEFORE EACH THE
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257SHALL REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY.THE

(2) THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION SHALL
INCLUDE:

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(I) A COMPLETE OPERATING AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
CORPORATION’S OPERATIONS;COVERING THE

(II) CORPORATION’SA SUMMARY OF THE ACTIVITIES DURING
YEAR;THE PRECEDING FISCAL

(III) INFORMATION ON ALL SALARIES AND ANY INCENTIVES
BOARD CORPORATION EMPLOYEES;APPROVED BY THE FOR

(IV) OUTREACH, TRAINING, MENTORSHIP,INFORMATION ON
SUPPORT, MINORITY– WOMEN–OWNEDAND INVESTMENT IN AND QUALIFIED
BUSINESSES, MARYLAND SMALLINCLUDING SUPPORT FOR MARKETING BY THE
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AUTHORITY;

(V) INFORMATION ON ENTITIES THAT HAVE CURRENT
INVESTMENTS AND ENTITIES THAT RECEIVED FUNDING OR INVESTMENTS IN THE
ON:CURRENT YEAR

1. OPERATIONS;THE PRINCIPAL BUSINESS

2. STATETHE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN THE AND THE
STATE;NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE THE

3. THE CAPITAL OR OTHER INVESTMENTS MADE IN THE
STATE; AND

4. THE PROPOSED AND ACTUAL JOB CREATION OR
STATECAPITAL INVESTMENT IN THE AS A RESULT OF THE INVESTMENT OR
SUPPORT;

(VI) INFORMATION ON THE CREATION OF AND APPOINTMENTS
MADE TO AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE AND THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ADVISORY
COMMITTEE;COMMITTEE AND MEMBERS OF THE AND

(VII) BOARDTHE POLICIES OF THE AND ANY CHANGES TO
POLICIES.EXISTING

(B) (1) ON BASIS, CORPORATIONA QUARTERLY THE SHALL REPORT TO
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTTHE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE, JOINT AUDIT EVALUATION COMMITTEE GENERALTHE AND AND THE
ASSEMBLY.

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(2) THE REPORT REQUIRED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION SHALL
INCLUDE A LIST OF THE BUSINESSES AND PROJECTS RECEIVING SUPPORT THROUGH
CORPORATION,PROGRAMS ADMINISTERED BY THE INCLUDING THOSE RECEIVING
§ 21–123.2 STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONSINVESTMENTS MADE UNDER OF THE AND
ARTICLE.

(3) THE LIST OF BUSINESSES AND PROJECTS RECEIVING SUPPORT
EACH:SHALL INCLUDE FOR

(I) STATE;THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN THE

(II) STATE;THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE THE

(III) STATE;THE CAPITAL OR OTHER INVESTMENTS MADE IN THE
AND

(IV) PROPOSED JOB CREATION OR CAPITAL INVESTMENT IN THE
STATE SUPPORT.AS A RESULT OF THE INVESTMENT OR

(C) THE CORPORATION STATEMENTS,SHALL PUBLISH ANNUAL FINANCIAL
REPORTS, BOARD WEBSITE.AUDIT AND POLICIES OF THE VISIBLY ON ITS

Article – Housing and Community Development

4–508.

(a) In this section, “Fund” means the Strategic Demolition and Smart Growth
Impact Fund.

(b) There is a Strategic Demolition and Smart Growth Impact Fund.

(c) The purpose of the Fund is to provide grants and loans to assist in
predevelopment activities, including interior and exterior demolition, land assembly,
[and] development, ~~PAYMENTS,~~architecture and engineering, site ~~DEBT~~ AND CREDIT
for revitalization projects in designated areas of the State.ENHANCEMENT

(d) The Department shall administer the Fund.

(e) (1) The Fund is a special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to § 7–302 of
the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(2) The State Treasurer shall hold the Fund separately, and the
Comptroller shall account for the Fund.

(f) The Fund consists of:

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 123 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) money appropriated in the State budget to the Fund;

(2) repayments of loans made from the Fund;

(3) interest earnings of the Fund; and

(4) any other money from any other source accepted for the benefit of the
Fund.

(g) (1) The Fund may be used only to provide grants and loans to government
agencies and community development organizations for interior and exterior demolition,
[and] development, ~~PAYMENTS,~~land assembly, architecture and engineering, site ~~DEBT~~
for revitalization projects in an area designated as:AND CREDIT ENHANCEMENT

(i) a Sustainable Community; or

(ii) a qualified opportunity zone designated under § 1400Z–1 of the
Internal Revenue Code in Allegany County, Garrett County, Somerset County, or Wicomico
County.

(2) (i) For fiscal years 2017 through 2019, to be eligible for a grant or
loan from the Fund, a government agency or community development organization shall
provide evidence of a matching fund that is equal to $1 for every $4 in State funding that
the agency or organization is applying for from the Fund.

(ii) The matching fund required under subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph may include:

1. money from the federal government, local government, or
any other public or private source;

2. real property;

3. in–kind contributions; and

4. funds expended before the date the grant or loan is
awarded.

(3) For fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal year thereafter, to be eligible for a
grant or loan from the Fund, a government agency or community development organization
is not required to provide evidence of a matching fund.

(4) The Department shall award grants and loans from the Fund on a
competitive basis.

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 123

(h) (1) The State Treasurer shall invest the money of the Fund in the same
manner as other State money may be invested.

(2) Any interest earnings of the Fund shall be credited to the Fund.

(i) Expenditures from the Fund may be made only in accordance with the State
budget.

(j) (1) For fiscal year 2018, the Governor shall include in the annual budget
bill or capital budget bill an appropriation of $25,625,000 from general funds or the
proceeds from the sale of State general obligation bonds to the Fund, which shall be
allocated as follows:

(i) $22,125,000 for projects in Baltimore City; and

(ii) $3,500,000 for projects throughout the State.

(2) For fiscal year 2019, the Governor shall include in the annual budget
bill or capital budget bill an appropriation of $28,500,000 from general funds or the
proceeds from the sale of State general obligation bonds to the Fund, which shall be
allocated as follows:

(i) $25,000,000 for projects in Baltimore City; and

(ii) $3,500,000 for projects throughout the State.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 17 –