PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1002

Chapter 1002

(House Bill 586)

AN ACT concerning

Frederick County – Alcoholic Beverages – Weinberg Center/New Spires Arts
Stages Beer, Wine, and Liquor License

FOR the purpose of altering the Class C (Weinberg Center) beer, wine, and liquor license
in Frederick County to be the Class C (Weinberg Center/New Spires Arts Stages)
beer, wine, and liquor license; expanding the licensed premises to include the New
Spires Arts Stages; altering the officials who may sign a certain license application;
authorizing the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor at an event held by a
certain group that has rented a certain facility; and generally relating to alcoholic
beverages in Frederick County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 20–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 20–1015
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

20–102.

This title applies only in Frederick County.

20–1015.

Center/NEW SPIRES ARTS STAGES)(a) There is a Class C (Weinberg beer,
wine, and liquor license.

[president officers](b) The and two other of the Weinberg Center forMANAGER
NEW SPIRES ARTS STAGES,the Arts OR THE OR ANOTHER MUNICIPAL OFFICIAL
MAYOR CITY FREDERICK, shall sign the applicationDESIGNATED BY THE OF THE OF

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1002 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

for the license.

(c) The Board may issue the license for use by the nonprofit Weinberg Center for
CENTER NEW SPIRES ARTS STAGES.the Arts AT THE AND AT THE

(d) (1) The license authorizes the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor
at retail to a customer on the licensed premises.

(2) Beer, wine, and liquor may be consumed anywhere on the licensed
premises.

(e) The license holder may sell beer, wine, and liquor from 1 hour before to 1 hour
after:

[or](1) a performance;

(2) a fund–raiser that benefits the Weinberg Center for the Arts OR THE
NEW SPIRES ARTS STAGES; OR

(3) AN EVENT HOSTED BY AN OUTSIDE GROUP THAT HAS RENTED
FACILITY.EITHER

(f) The annual license fee is $325.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –