PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 706

Chapter 706

(House Bill 583)

AN ACT concerning

Center for Firearm Violence Prevention and Intervention – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Center for Firearm Violence Prevention and
Intervention in the Maryland Department of Health to reduce firearm violence, harm
from firearm violence, and misuse of firearms in the State; and generally relating to
the Center for Firearm Violence Prevention and Intervention.

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 13–5201 through 13–5205 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 52. Center
for Firearm Violence Prevention and Intervention”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

SUBTITLE 52. CENTER FIREARM VIOLENCE PREVENTIONFOR AND
INTERVENTION.

13–5201.

IN SUBTITLE, “CENTER” CENTER FIREARM VIOLENCETHIS MEANS THE FOR
PREVENTION INTERVENTION.AND

13–5202.

(A) THERE CENTER FIREARM VIOLENCE PREVENTIONIS A FOR AND
INTERVENTION DEPARTMENT.IN THE

(B) THE CENTER VIOLENCE,PURPOSE OF THE IS TO REDUCE FIREARM
VIOLENCE, STATEHARM FROM FIREARM AND MISUSE OF FIREARMS IN THE BY
FEDERAL, STATE,PARTNERING WITH AND LOCAL AGENCIES AND AFFECTED
COMMUNITIES TO IMPLEMENT A PUBLIC HEALTH APPROACH TO FIREARM VIOLENCE
REDUCTION.

13–5203.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 706 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A) THE SECRETARY SHALL APPOINT THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER.

(B) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHALL APPOINT AND REMOVE ALL STAFF IN
STATE PERSONNEL PENSIONSACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE AND
ARTICLE.

(C) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SHALL COORDINATE AND DIRECT ANY
CENTER DEPARTMENT.PLANNING RELATED TO THE INITIATED BY THE

(D) THE CENTER FOR, RECEIVE,MAY APPLY AND SPEND FEDERAL
GRANTS–IN–AID OR ANY OTHER FEDERAL FUNDS MADE AVAILABLE TO THE
DEPARTMENT FOR USE IN CARRYING OUT THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE
SECRETARY DEPARTMENT.OR THE

13–5204.

(A) THE CENTER SHALL:

(1) WORK GOVERNOR’S OFFICEIN CONSULTATION WITH THE OF
CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICES AGENCY,AND OR ANY SUCCESSOR
MARYLAND STATE POLICE, STATETHE AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT OR LOCAL
~~WHOLE–OF–GOVERNMENT~~AGENCY TO ENSURE A MULTIDEPARTMENTAL APPROACH
VIOLENCE;TO REDUCING FIREARM

(2) SOLICIT FROM,AND CONSIDER RECOMMENDATIONS ~~AT~~ ~~A~~
~~MINIMUM:~~

(I) COMMUNITIES DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTED BY
VIOLENCE;FIREARM ~~AND~~

(II) PUBLIC EXPERTS;HEALTH ~~AND~~

(III) INDIVIDUALS OR ORGANIZATIONS WITH EXPERTISE IN
TRAINING;FIREARM SAFETY AND AND

~~(III)~~ (IV) ANY EXPERTS, GROUPS,OTHER OR ORGANIZATIONS
NECESSARY;AS THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DETERMINES APPROPRIATE AND AND

(3) (I) ON MAY 1, 2025,OR BEFORE SUBMIT A PRELIMINARY
STATE PLAN PUBLIC HEALTH APPROACH REDUCING FIREARM VIOLENCEFOR A TO
CENTER GOVERNOR AND,TO GUIDE THE WORK OF THE TO THE IN ACCORDANCE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 706

§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY;WITH OF THE THE
AND

(II) ON MAY 1, 2029, 4OR BEFORE AND EVERY YEARS
THEREAFTER, STATE STRATEGIC PLAN FIREARM VIOLENCESUBMIT A FOR
REDUCTION USING PUBLIC HEALTH STRATEGIES GOVERNOR AND,TO THE IN
§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERALACCORDANCE WITH OF THE THE
ASSEMBLY.

(B) THE CENTER MAY:

(1) OFFER STATETRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO AND
AGENCIES, PROFESSIONALS,LOCAL HEALTH CARE AND COMMUNITY AND
FAITH–BASED ORGANIZATIONS TO INCREASE CAPACITY TO IMPLEMENT
EVIDENCE–BASED FIREARM VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION
STRATEGIES;

(2) ISSUE BEST PRACTICE GUIDANCE AND MODEL PROCESSES IN
CONSULTATION WITH AFFECTED COMMUNITIES REGARDING IMPLEMENTATION OF
EVIDENCE–BASED FIREARM VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION
STRATEGIES;

(3) IN GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIMECONSULTATION WITH THE OF
PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICES AGENCY,AND OR ANY SUCCESSOR
CROSS–JURISDICTIONAL SHARING;FACILITATE DATA AND INFORMATION

(4) CONDUCT CAMPAIGNS;PUBLIC AWARENESS

(5) SHARE DATA AND COLLABORATE WITH HIGHER EDUCATION AND
VIOLENCE;RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS REGARDING THE PREVENTION OF FIREARM

(6) PROMOTE EVIDENCE–BASEDTHE DEVELOPMENT OF FIREARM
VIOLENCE PREVENTION INITIATIVES IN AFFECTED COMMUNITIES THROUGHOUT
STATE;THE AND

(7) ENGAGE IN ANY OTHER ACTIVITY CONSISTENT WITH THE
CENTER’S MISSION.

13–5205.

FOR 2026 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR THE
GOVERNOR MAY INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION
CENTER.SUFFICIENT TO FUND THE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 706 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 4 –