PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1009

Chapter 1009

(House Bill 632)

AN ACT concerning

Harford County – Alcoholic Beverages Licenses – Golf Simulator Facility

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Harford County to
issue a Class GSF (golf simulator facility) license to a golf simulator facility under
certain circumstances; authorizing the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor
for on–premises consumption under certain circumstances; requiring the license
holder to submit a certain report to the Board before a license may be renewed; and
generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Harford County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 22–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 22–1003.2
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

22–102.

This title applies only in Harford County.

22–1003.2.

(A) THERE CLASS GSF (GOLF FACILITY) LICENSE.IS A SIMULATOR

(B) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE THE LICENSE FOR USE BY A GOLF SIMULATOR
THAT:FACILITY

(1) PUBLIC;IS OPEN TO THE

(2) BAYS;HAS AT LEAST FIVE GOLF SIMULATOR AND
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1009 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) HAS ACCOMMODATIONS THAT ARE PREDOMINANTLY DEDICATED
TO GOLF SIMULATOR BAYS AND SEATING DEDICATED TO THE GOLF SIMULATOR
BAYS.

(C) AN BOARDAPPLICANT FOR THE LICENSE SHALL SUBMIT TO THE A
FLOOR PLAN OR LAYOUT OF THE PROPOSED LICENSED PREMISES THAT
ILLUSTRATES THAT THE PROPOSED LICENSED PREMISES IS PREDOMINANTLY
DEDICATED TO GOLF SIMULATOR BAYS AND HAS SEATING DEDICATED TO THE GOLF
BAYS.SIMULATOR

(D) THE BEER, WINE,LICENSE HOLDER MAY SELL AND LIQUOR FOR
ON–PREMISES CONSUMPTION:

(1) IF THE LICENSE HOLDER OFFERS FOOD ON THE PREMISES AT ALL
SOLD;TIMES WHEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ARE BEING AND

(2) §DURING NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH
22–2004 TITLE.OF THIS

(E) (1) THE HOLDER’S FROM:LICENSE ANNUAL GROSS SALES

(I) 35%ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES MAY NOT EXCEED OF THE
FACILITY;ANNUAL GROSS SALES OF THE GOLF SIMULATOR

(II) GOLF SIMULATOR BAY RENTAL FEES SHALL BE AT LEAST
50% FACILITY;OF THE ANNUAL GROSS SALES OF THE GOLF SIMULATOR AND

(III) 15%FOOD SHALL BE AT LEAST OF THE ANNUAL GROSS
FACILITY.SALES OF THE GOLF SIMULATOR

(2) BEFORE BOARD LICENSE,THE MAY RENEW THE THE LICENSE
BOARDHOLDER SHALL PROVIDE THE WITH AN ANNUAL GROSS SALES REPORT FOR
ALCOHOL, FEES,GOLF SIMULATOR BAY RENTAL AND FOOD THAT SHOWS THE
(1)LICENSE HOLDER HAS MET THE REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION.

(F) THE $1,500.ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –