PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 644

Chapter 644

(House Bill 680)

AN ACT concerning

Environment – Nuclear Power Plants – Emergency Preparedness
(Radiation and Emergency Preparedness and Protection Act)

FOR the purpose of establishing the Radiation Emergency Response Program in the
Department of the Environment; requiring the Department of the Environment to
serve as an off–site response organization and the lead State agency for all nuclear
incidents within the State; requiring the Department of the Environment to prepare
a technical emergency radiation response plan, respond to emergencies involving a
nuclear power plant, participate in a certain federal program, and procure certain
specialized equipment; requiring the owner of a nuclear power plant to remit certain
fees to the Department of the Environment for a certain purpose; authorizing the
Department of the Environment to annually increase certain fees under certain
circumstances; requiring the Department of the Environment to transfer a certain
fee collected to the Maryland Department of Emergency Management for
radiological emergency response preparedness activities; establishing the Radiation
Emergency Response Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; requiring interest earnings
of the Fund to be credited to the Fund; and generally relating to nuclear power plants
and emergency preparedness.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Environment
Section 8–101 and 8–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Environment
Section 8–701 through 8–704 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 7. Emergency
Preparedness”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)189. and 190.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 644 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)191.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Environment

8–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Board” means the Radiation Control Advisory Board.

(c) “Emergency” means a sudden and unforeseen condition of such public gravity
and urgency that it requires immediate response to protect the public health and welfare.

(D) “EMERGENCY ZONE”PLANNING MEANS A PLUME EXPOSURE PATHWAY
ZONE, 10 C.F.R. § 50.47(C)(2).EMERGENCY PLANNING AS DESCRIBED IN

[(d)] (E) “General license” means a license that, under the rules and regulations
adopted by the Department under this title, is effective without the filing of an application
by the licensee.

(F) “NUCLEAR INCIDENT” OCCURRENCE,MEANS ANY INCLUDING AN
OCCURRENCE,EXTRAORDINARY NUCLEAR OR SERIES OF OCCURRENCES AT A
INJURY,NUCLEAR POWER PLANT WITH THE POTENTIAL FOR CAUSING BODILY
SICKNESS, DISEASE, DEATH, PROPERTY,LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO OR LOSS OF USE OF
RADIOACTIVE, TOXIC, EXPLOSIVE,PROPERTY RESULTING FROM THE OR OTHER
HAZARDOUS PROPERTIES OF THE RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL USED BY A NUCLEAR
PROPERTY.POWER PLANT OR STORED ON ITS

(G) (1) “NUCLEAR PLANT”POWER MEANS ANY FACILITY CAPABLE OF
ENERGY:PRODUCING ELECTRICITY USING NUCLEAR

(I) 1. THAT STATE;IS LOCATED IN THE OR

2. WITH AN EMERGENCY PLANNING ZONE THAT
STATE;INCLUDES ANY AREA OF THE AND
– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 644

(II) FOR DEPARTMENTWHICH THE PARTICIPATES IN PLANNING
FACILITY.AND RESPONSE ACTIVITIES RELATED TO THE

(2) “NUCLEAR PLANT”POWER INCLUDES A FACILITY WITH ONE OR
THAT:MORE NUCLEAR POWER REACTORS

(I) HAS ONSITE;SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL STORED

(II) HAS NOT BEEN FULLY DISMANTLED AND DECOMMISSIONED
REGULATIONS;IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPLICABLE FEDERAL LAW AND OR

(III) HAS U.S.NOT BEEN GRANTED LICENSE TERMINATION BY THE
NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION.

(H) “NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION” U.S. NUCLEARMEANS THE
REGULATORY COMMISSION OR ANY SUCCESSOR ENTITY RESPONSIBLE FOR FEDERAL
ENERGY.REGULATION OF NUCLEAR

(I) “OFF–SITE ORGANIZATION” STATE, LOCAL,RESPONSE MEANS A OR
TRIBAL GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION RESPONSIBLE FOR CARRYING OUT
INCIDENT.EMERGENCY RESPONSE FUNCTIONS DURING A NUCLEAR

[(e)] (J) “Person” includes any public or municipal corporation and any agency,
bureau, department, or instrumentality of State or local government and, to the extent
authorized by federal law, federal government.

[(f)] (K) “Radiation” means:

(1) Ionizing radiation, including gamma rays, X–rays, alpha particles, beta
particles, neutrons, high speed electrons, high speed protons, and any other atomic or nuclear
particles or rays;

(2) Any electromagnetic radiation that can be generated during the
operation of a manufactured device that has an electronic circuit; or

(3) Any sonic, ultrasonic, or infrasonic waves that are emitted as a result of
the operation, in a manufactured device, of an electronic circuit that can generate a physical
field of radiation.

[(g)] (L) “Specific license” means a license that, under the rules and regulations
adopted by the Department under this title, is effective only after the applicant files an
application and the Department approves the application.

8–102.
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 644 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) The General Assembly finds that radiation:

(1) If used properly, can help to improve the health, welfare, and productivity
of the public;

(2) If used carelessly or excessively, may destroy life or health; and

(3) If used improperly, may impair the industrial and agricultural potential
of this State.

(b) It is the policy of this State:

[and](1) To encourage the constructive uses of radiation;

radiation;(2) To control AND

(3) TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC FROM UNNECESSARY AND HARMFUL
INCIDENT.EXPOSURE RESULTING FROM A NUCLEAR

SUBTITLE 7. EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS.

8–701.

(A) IT STATEIS THE POLICY OF THE TO PROTECT THE PUBLIC AGAINST
ADVERSE HEALTH EFFECTS RESULTING FROM NUCLEAR INCIDENTS AND MITIGATE
THE IMPACTS OF NUCLEAR INCIDENTS BY ESTABLISHING A STATE OF READINESS
PREPAREDNESS.THROUGH EMERGENCY

(B) THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY FINDS THAT THE NUCLEAR INDUSTRY SHOULD
BEAR THE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING PLANS TO
INCIDENTS.PREPARE FOR AND MITIGATE THE IMPACTS OF NUCLEAR

8–702.

(A) (1) THERE RADIATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM.IS A

(2) THE DEPARTMENT PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(B) THE DEPARTMENT AS:SHALL SERVE

(1) AN OFF–SITE ORGANIZATION;RESPONSE AND

(2) THE STATELEAD AGENCY FOR PROTECTIVE ACTIONS FOR ALL

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 644

STATE.NUCLEAR INCIDENTS WITHIN THE

(C) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(1) (I) PREPARE A TECHNICAL EMERGENCY RADIATION RESPONSE
STATEPLAN FOR INCORPORATION INTO THE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
MARYLAND DEPARTMENT EMERGENCY MANAGEMENTDEVELOPED BY THE OF IN
TITLE 14 PUBLIC SAFETY ARTICLE;ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE AND

(II) RESPOND TO EMERGENCIES THAT INVOLVE A NUCLEAR
PLANT;POWER

(2) PARTICIPATE FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENTIN THE
ADMINISTRATION’S RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PROGRAM
PLANT;ACTIVITIES APPLICABLE TO EACH NUCLEAR POWER AND

(3) PROCURE SPECIALIZED SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT FOR
PLANT.RESPONDING TO EMERGENCIES THAT INVOLVE A NUCLEAR POWER

8–703.

(A) THE SHALL,OWNER OF A NUCLEAR POWER PLANT FOR EACH NUCLEAR
OWNED,POWER PLANT REMIT THE FEES REQUIRED UNDER THIS SECTION TO THE
DEPARTMENT.

(B) (1) ON JULY 1, 2024, JULY 1 THEREAFTER,OR BEFORE AND EACH
DEPARTMENT:THE OWNER OF A NUCLEAR POWER PLANT SHALL PAY TO THE

(I) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A FEE
$300,000 RADIATION EMERGENCYOF FOR THE OPERATIONAL COSTS OF THE
RESPONSE PROGRAM; AND

(II) SUBJECT (2) (3)TO PARAGRAPHS AND OF THIS
SUBSECTION, $60,000A FEE OF FOR RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE
PREPAREDNESS.

(2) (I) SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
DEPARTMENT (1)MAY ANNUALLY INCREASE THE FEES UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN THE
CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ALL URBAN CONSUMERS WASHINGTONFOR FOR THE
METROPOLITAN AREA DURING THE PREVIOUS YEAR TO ENSURE ADEQUATE
RADIATION EMERGENCYFUNDING FOR THE OPERATIONAL COSTS OF THE
RESPONSE PROGRAM.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 644 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) THE DEPARTMENT MAY NOT ANNUALLY INCREASE THE
(1) 3%.FEES UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION BY MORE THAN

(3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL TRANSFER THE FEE COLLECTED
(1)(II) MARYLAND DEPARTMENTUNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION TO THE
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENTOF FOR RADIOLOGICAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE
ACTIVITIES.PREPAREDNESS

(C) EXCEPT (B)(3) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
RADIATIONFEES COLLECTED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL BE PAID INTO THE
EMERGENCY RESPONSE FUND § 8–704 SUBTITLE.UNDER OF THIS

8–704.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” RADIATION EMERGENCYTHIS MEANS THE
RESPONSE FUND.

(B) THERE RADIATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE FUND.IS A

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO SUPPORT THE COSTS OF DEVELOPING
RADIATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM.AND IMPLEMENTING THE

(D) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(F) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) FEES § 8–703(B)(1)(I) SUBTITLE;COLLECTED UNDER OF THIS

(2) MONEY STATE FUND;APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(3) INTEREST EARNINGS; AND

(4) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 644

(G) THE FUND MAY BE USED ONLY FOR DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING
RADIATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM,THE INCLUDING ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES.

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(J) MONEY FUND RADIATION EMERGENCYEXPENDED FROM THE FOR THE
RESPONSE PROGRAM IS SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE
PLACE OF FUNDING THAT OTHERWISE WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR THE
RADIATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM.

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]189. the Teacher Retention and Development Fund;

Fund;190. the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant AND

191. RADIATION EMERGENCY RESPONSE FUND.THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 7 –