PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1014

Chapter 1014

(House Bill 654)

AN ACT concerning

St. Mary’s County – Alcoholic Beverages – Nonprofit Performing Arts Theater
License

FOR the purpose of establishing in St. Mary’s County a nonprofit performing arts theater
beer and wine license that authorizes the holder to sell or serve beer and wine in
certain nonprofit performing arts theaters at retail for on–premises consumption;
and generally relating to alcoholic beverages in St. Mary’s County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 28–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 28–1004
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

28–102.

This title applies only in St. Mary’s County.

28–1004.

(A) IN SECTION, “NONPROFIT THEATER”THIS PERFORMING ARTS MEANS
AREA, BUILDING, PLAYS, ACTS,AN A OR A STRUCTURE DESIGNED AND USED FOR
DRAMAS, CONCERTS, OR SIMILAR EVENTS BY INDIVIDUALS PERFORMING ON A
STAGE.

(B) THERE IS A NONPROFIT PERFORMING ARTS THEATER BEER AND WINE
LICENSE.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1014 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) (1) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE THE LICENSE FOR USE ON THE PREMISES
THAT:OF A PERFORMING ARTS THEATER

(I) SEATING;HAS AND

(II) ORGANIZATION.IS OPERATED BY A NONPROFIT

(2) THE PRESIDENT AND TWO OTHER OFFICERS OF THE NONPROFIT
LICENSE.PERFORMING ARTS THEATER SHALL SIGN THE APPLICATION FOR THE

(D) THE LICENSE AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO SELL OR SERVE BEER AND
ON–PREMISES CONSUMPTION.WINE AT RETAIL FOR

(E) THE 1LICENSE HOLDER MAY SELL OR SERVE BEER AND WINE FROM
1 AFTER:HOUR BEFORE TO HOUR

(1) PERFORMANCE;A REGULAR OR

(2) FUND–RAISERA PERFORMANCE THAT BENEFITS THE NONPROFIT
THEATER.PERFORMING ARTS

(F) THE LICENSE HOLDER MAY PURCHASE BEER AND WINE FROM ~~A~~ ~~RETAIL~~
WHOLESALER.~~LICENSE~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~OR~~ A LICENSED

(G) THE $300.ANNUAL LICENSE FEE IS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –