PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 282

Chapter 282

(House Bill 669)

AN ACT concerning

Workers’ Compensation – Benefits – Hearing Loss

FOR the purpose of altering the frequencies in which industrial noise must be for an
employer to be required to provide workers’ compensation to a covered employee for
hearing loss; altering the method used to determine the percentage of hearing loss
deafness for purposes of workers’ compensation; altering the method used to
determine the deduction required to be made to allow for the average amount of
hearing loss from nonoccupational causes in the population for purposes of
calculating workers’ compensation benefits for occupational deafness; ~~requiring~~
~~tinnitus~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~considered~~ ~~part~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~covered~~ ~~employee’s~~ ~~hearing~~ ~~loss;~~ and generally
relating to workers’ compensation benefits.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Labor and Employment
Section 9–505 and 9–650
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Labor and Employment

9–505.

(a) Except as otherwise provided, an employer shall provide compensation in
accordance with this title to a covered employee for loss of hearing by the covered employee
[and] 3,000, 4,000due to industrial noise in the frequencies of 500, 1,000, 2,000, hertz.AND

(b) An employer is not liable for compensation for occupational deafness under
subsection (a) of this section unless the covered employee claiming benefits worked for the
employer in employment that exposed the covered employee to harmful noise for at least
90 days.

9–650.

(a) (1) Hearing loss shall be measured by audiometric instrumentation that
meets the following criteria:

(i) ANSI 3.6–1996;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 282 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) ANSI S3.43–1992; and

(iii) ANSI 3.39–1987 or any ANSI standard that supersedes the
previous calibration or measurement criteria.

(2) Measurements shall be conducted in a sound room that meets the ANSI
3.1–1991 criteria for maximum permissible ambient noise for audiometric test rooms.

(3) Behavioral psychoacoustic measurements shall be obtained with
instrumentation that utilizes insert earphones, as referenced in ANSI 3.6–1996.

(4) Electrodiagnostic measurements such as auditory evoked potentials,
acoustic emittance measurements, or distortion product otoacoustic emissions may be
obtained to determine the nature and extent of workplace hearing loss.

(5) Audiologic results shall be used in conjunction with other information
to evaluate a claimant’s compensable hearing loss.

(b) (1) The percentage of hearing loss for purposes of compensation for
occupational deafness shall be determined by calculating the average, in decibels, of the
[and] 3,000, 4,000thresholds of hearing for the frequencies of 500, 1,000, 2,000, hertzAND
in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection.

(2) The average of the thresholds in hearing shall be calculated by:

[4] 5(i) adding together the lowest measured losses in each of the
frequencies; and

[4] 5.(ii) dividing the total by

(3) To allow for the average amount of hearing loss from nonoccupational
causes found in the population at any given age, there shall be deducted from the total
average decibel loss determined under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection one–half of
[ata decibel for each year of the covered employee’s age over 50 the time of the last exposure
noise]to industrial OR FOR EACH YEAR SUBSEQUENT TO THE DATE OF THE COVERED
EMPLOYEE’S NOISE,LAST INJURIOUS EXPOSURE TO INDUSTRIAL WHICHEVER IS
LESS.

[4] 5(c) (1) If the average hearing loss in the frequencies determined under
subsection (b) of this section is 25 decibels or less, the covered employee does not have a
compensable hearing loss.

[4] 5(2) If the average hearing loss in the frequencies determined under
subsection (b) of this section is 91.7 decibels or more, the covered employee has a 100%
compensable hearing loss.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 282

(3) For every decibel that the average hearing loss exceeds 25 decibels, the
covered employee shall be allowed 1.5% of the compensable hearing loss, up to a maximum
of 100% compensable hearing loss at 91.7 decibels.

(d) The binaural percentage of hearing loss shall be determined by:

(1) multiplying the percentage of hearing loss in the better ear by 5;

(2) adding that product to the percentage of hearing loss in the poorer ear;
and

(3) dividing that sum by 6.

~~(E)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~TINNITUS~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~CONSIDERED~~ ~~PART~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~COVERED~~
~~EMPLOYEE’S~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~HEARING~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(2)~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~DETERMINING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~HEARING~~ ~~LOSS~~
~~TINNITUS,~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~SHALL:~~~~ATTRIBUTABLE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~§~~ ~~9–721(A)~~~~CONSIDER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROVISIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~TITLE~~
~~§~~ ~~9–721(B)~~ ~~TITLE;~~~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPLICABLE~~ ~~PROVISIONS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~ADD~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~HEARING~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~ATTRIBUTABLE~~
~~TO~~ ~~TINNITUS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~HEARING~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~DETERMINED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(D)~~~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~DETERMINE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TOTAL~~ ~~PERCENTAGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~EMPLOYEE’S~~ ~~LOSS.~~~~COVERED~~ ~~HEARING~~

~~(3)~~ ~~A~~ ~~COVERED~~ ~~EMPLOYEE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMPENSABLE~~ ~~CLAIM~~ ~~FOR~~
~~HEARING~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~ATTRIBUTABLE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~TINNITUS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~(B)~~~~ABSENCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMPENSABLE~~ ~~CLAIM~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~HEARING~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTIONS~~
~~(D)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~THROUGH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~[(e)]~~ ~~(F)~~ (1) In determining the percentage of hearing loss under this section,
consideration may not be given to whether the use of an amplification device improves the
ability of a covered employee to understand speech or enhance behavioral hearing
thresholds.

(2) (i) In determining a workers’ compensation claim for noise–related
hearing loss, audiologic data shall use both bone conduction and air conduction results.

(ii) If a conductive loss is present, the bone conduction thresholds for
each ear, rather than the air conduction levels, shall be used to calculate a claimant’s
average hearing loss.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 282 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 4 –