PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 518

Chapter 518

(House Bill 613)

AN ACT concerning

Natural Resources – Recreational Catching of Oysters or Clams – Requirements

FOR the purpose of altering certain authorizations to recreationally catch clams in the
State; establishing a recreational oyster license; requiring the Department of
Natural Resources to develop and publish an application form for obtaining a
recreational oyster license; establishing requirements for the application for and
issuance of a recreational oyster license; authorizing the Department to designate a
certain agent to sell a recreational oyster license; authorizing a certain agent to
retain a certain amount of money for each recreational oyster license issued by the
agent; requiring the Department to issue complimentary or discounted recreational
oyster licenses to certain individuals; authorizing certain individuals to catch oysters
without a recreational oyster license under certain circumstances and subject to
certain requirements; requiring a recreational oyster licensee to physically possess
the license while harvesting or attempting to harvest oysters; prohibiting a
recreational oyster licensee from transferring a license; and generally relating to
catching oysters and clams in the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 4–1003
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Natural Resources
Section 4–1004
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Natural Resources
Section 4–1004.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Natural Resources

4–1003.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 518 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Any resident of the State may catch oysters or clams on any area in the waters of the
State from which catching oysters or clams is permitted under the provisions of this
subtitle. This section applies to catching oysters or clams by rakes, tongs, patent tongs,
dredges, handscrapes, or by other means permitted by law for the particular area. This
section applies also to catching clams by hydraulic or mechanical dredges or rigs permitted
by law for the particular area. This section does not affect any provision of this subtitle
concerning the licensing or regulation of catching oysters or clams, except as specifically
provided in this section.

4–1004.

[up and] [a(a) (1) A resident may catch to 1 bushel each of oysters clams day
for the person’s own use and consumption without a license, in places and at times
of]prescribed by regulation theIN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY
Department.

[up(2) A nonresident may catch in the tidal bays of Worcester County to 1
of] [per day]bushel hard clams for the nonresident’s own use and consumption IN
DEPARTMENT.ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE

[oysters]:(b) Only a resident of the State may obtain a license to catch

(1) OYSTERS or clams for commercial purposes in the waters of the State;
OR

(2) OYSTERS FOR RECREATIONAL PURPOSES IN THE WATERS OF THE
STATE.

4–1004.1.

(A) IN SECTION, “FORMER WAR”THIS PRISONER OF MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL
WHO, MILITARY, NAVAL,WHILE SERVING IN THE ACTIVE OR AIR SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES, WAS FORCIBLY DETAINED OR INTERNED IN THE LINE OF DUTY BY
AGENTS, FORCE,AN ENEMY GOVERNMENT OR ITS OR A HOSTILE DURING A PERIOD
CONFLICT.OF ARMED

(B) THERE LICENSE.IS A RECREATIONAL OYSTER

~~(B)~~ (C) ~~A~~ EXCEPT (F) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS A
16PERSON AT LEAST YEARS OLD SHALL SECURE A RECREATIONAL OYSTER LICENSE
STATE.TO HARVEST OYSTERS IN THE TIDAL WATERS OF THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 518

~~(C)~~ (D) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL DEVELOP AND PUBLISH AN
LICENSE.APPLICATION FORM FOR OBTAINING A RECREATIONAL OYSTER

(2) (I) ~~TO~~ EXCEPT (F)AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, TO OBTAIN A RECREATIONAL OYSTER LICENSE TO HARVEST OYSTERS IN
STATE, STATE 16THE WATERS OF THE A RESIDENT AT LEAST YEARS OLD SHALL
DEPARTMENTSUBMIT TO THE AN APPLICATION USING THE FORM DEVELOPED AND
DEPARTMENT.PUBLISHED BY THE

(II) THE INCLUDE:APPLICATION SHALL

1. THE APPLICANT’S SOCIALLAST FOUR DIGITS OF THE
SECURITY NUMBER, SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER;IF THE APPLICANT HAS A

2. PAYMENT $10 FEE;OF A APPLICATION AND

3. ANY OTHER INFORMATION REQUESTED BY THE
DEPARTMENT.

(III) THE DEPARTMENT PORTION,SHALL USE A AS DETERMINED
DEPARTMENT,BY THE OF THE APPLICATION FEE COLLECTED UNDER THIS
PARAGRAPH TO REPLENISH PUBLIC FISHERY OYSTER BARS BY PLANTING SHELL
OYSTERS.AND JUVENILE

(3) AN APPLICANT MAY NOT WILLFULLY MAKE A FALSE STATEMENT
DEPARTMENT APPLICATION.OR REPRESENTATION TO THE ON THE

~~(D)~~ (E) (1) (I) A RECREATIONAL OYSTER LICENSE MAY BE ISSUED
DEPARTMENT.BY AN AUTHORIZED AGENT OF THE

~~(2)~~ (II) THE DEPARTMENT MAY DESIGNATE A PERSON ENGAGED IN
A COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE AS AN AGENT TO SELL RECREATIONAL OYSTER
LICENSES.

~~(3)~~ (III) AN 50AGENT MAY RETAIN CENTS FOR EACH RECREATIONAL
AGENT.OYSTER LICENSE ISSUED BY THE

(2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ISSUE A COMPLIMENTARY
STATERECREATIONAL OYSTER LICENSE TO A RESIDENT OF THE WHO CERTIFIES
IS:THAT THE RESIDENT

(I) A WAR;FORMER PRISONER OF

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 518 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) AN AMERICAN VETERAN WHO IS DETERMINED TO BE
U.S. DEPARTMENT VETERANS AFFAIRS;UNEMPLOYABLE BY THE OF

(III) A 100% SERVICE–CONNECTED AMERICANDISABLED
VETERAN; OR

(IV) BLIND.

(3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(I) ISSUE A DISCOUNTED RECREATIONAL OYSTER LICENSE TO
STATE PURPLE HEART AWARD;A RESIDENT OF THE WHO IS A RECIPIENT OF THE
AND

(II) DETERMINE THE COST OF THE DISCOUNTED APPLICATION
FEE.

(F) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS AN
INDIVIDUAL MAY CATCH OYSTERS WITHOUT A RECREATIONAL OYSTER LICENSE IF
INDIVIDUAL:THE

(I) OWNS OR LEASES PROPERTY BORDERING TIDAL WATERS OF
STATE;THE OR

(II) 1. IS THE SPOUSE OR IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER OF
(I) PARAGRAPH;THE INDIVIDUAL UNDER ITEM OF THIS AND

2. RESIDES ON THE PROPERTY OWNED OR LEASED
(I) PARAGRAPH.UNDER ITEM OF THIS

(2) (I) BEFORE AN INDIVIDUAL MAY CATCH OYSTERS IN
SUBSECTION, SHALL:ACCORDANCE WITH THIS THE INDIVIDUAL

1. REGISTER DEPARTMENT;WITH THE AND

2. PROVIDE ALL INFORMATION REQUESTED BY THE
DEPARTMENT.

(II) THE DEPARTMENT MAY NOT ESTABLISH A FEE TO REGISTER
PARAGRAPH.UNDER THIS

~~(E)~~ (G) A LICENSEE SHALL PHYSICALLY POSSESS THE LICENSE WHILE
OYSTERS.HARVESTING OR ATTEMPTING TO HARVEST

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 518

~~(F)~~ (H) (1) A 1RECREATIONAL OYSTER LICENSE SHALL BE VALID FOR
ISSUANCE.YEAR FOLLOWING THE DATE OF

(2) A LICENSEE MAY NOT TRANSFER A RECREATIONAL OYSTER
LICENSE.

~~(G)~~ (I) THE DEPARTMENT MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT
SECTION.THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 5 –