PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 197

Chapter 197

(House Bill 624)

AN ACT concerning

Next Generation Scholars of Maryland Program – Program Administrator –
Alterations

FOR the purpose of altering the administrator of the Next Generation Scholars of Maryland
Program to be the Maryland Higher Education Commission rather than the State
Department of Education; requiring the Department to assist the Commission with
certain Program duties; and generally relating to the Next Generation Scholars of
Maryland Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 18–303.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

18–303.1.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Fund” means the Next Generation Scholars of Maryland Program
Fund.

(3) “Program” means the Next Generation Scholars of Maryland Program.

[Department] COMMISSION, [Commission](b) The in collaboration with the
DEPARTMENT, county boards of education, county superintendents, and institutions of
higher education, shall administer the Next Generation Scholars of Maryland Program.

(c) The Program shall provide guidance and services to students who qualify for
a Guaranteed Access Grant in accordance with § 18–303(e) of this subtitle and students
who qualify to receive free or reduced–price lunch under the National School Lunch
Program to assist the students in successfully:

(1) Completing a college preparatory curriculum;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 197 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) Graduating from high school;

(3) Matriculating at an institution of higher education as defined in §
18–303 of this subtitle; and

(4) Making timely progress to complete a degree program.

[Department] COMMISSION(d) (1) The shall:

IN DEPARTMENT,(i) ~~Publicize~~ COLLABORATION WITH THE
materials,the Program through community outreach and marketingPUBLICIZE
INCLUDING POSTING LISTS OF THE NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS SELECTED TO
PROVIDE SERVICES AND THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEMS AND CITIES IN WHICH THE
PROGRAM LOCATED;IS

(ii) Award grants to nonprofit organizations to administer the
Program;

(iii) Solicit applications from nonprofit organizations to administer
the Program in local school systems; and

(iv) Give priority to applications:

1. From Maryland–based nonprofit organizations; and

2. That include business and institution of higher education
partners.

(2) THE DEPARTMENT COMMISSIONSHALL ASSIST THE WITH THE
REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS AND THE SELECTION OF NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS TO
PROGRAM SYSTEMS.ADMINISTER THE IN LOCAL SCHOOL

(3)~~(2)~~ The Program may continue to provide services to students:

(i) When they attend an institution of higher education; or

(ii) Who have participated in the Program for at least 1 full year and
relocate to another county in the State that does not participate in the Program.

(e) In accordance with subsection (c) of this section, the services to be provided to
students participating in the Program shall include:

(1) A high school graduation plan;

(2) Summer work or internship opportunities;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 197

assistance,(3) Financial aid literacy INCLUDING INFORMING STUDENTS
FEDERAL,OF AVAILABLE SOURCES OF FINANCIAL AID AND HOW TO LEVERAGE
STATE, AND INSTITUTIONAL AID AT SPECIFIED INSTITUTIONS TO MAKE HIGHER
AFFORDABLE;EDUCATION

(4) Career interest assessments;

(5) Mentorship and one–on–one counseling;

(6) Visits to college campuses and workplaces;

(7) An intensive summer bridge or matriculation assistance program for
students entering an institution of higher education directly from high school; and

(8) A plan to matriculate and graduate from an institution of higher
education.

(f) A nonprofit organization that receives a grant to provide the guidance and
services required under subsection (e) of this section may utilize:

(1) Postsecondary students receiving work–study assistance at Maryland
institutions of higher education; and

(2) Secondary students in 11th and 12th grades who are successfully
completing high school graduation requirements.

(g) (1) For fiscal year 2023 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Governor shall
include in the annual budget bill an appropriation of $5,000,000 to the Program.

[Department] COMMISSION(2) The shall distribute grants to nonprofit
organizations that:

(i) Are selected in accordance with subsection (d) of this section; and

(ii) Will administer the Program in local school systems in which at
least 50% of the students as a percentage of full–time equivalent students as defined in §
5–201 of this article are eligible to receive a free lunch under the National School Lunch
year, DEPARTMENT.Program in the 2015–2016 school AS IDENTIFIED BY THE

(h) (1) There is a Next Generation Scholars of Maryland Program Fund.

(2) The purpose of the Fund is to provide funds for the administration of
the Program.

[Department] COMMISSION(3) The shall administer the Fund.
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 197 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) The Fund is a special, nonlapsing fund that is not subject to § 7–302 of
the State Finance and Procurement Article.

(5) The State Treasurer shall hold the Fund separately, and the
Comptroller shall account for the Fund.

(6) The Fund consists of:

(i) Money appropriated in the State budget for the Program;

(ii) Interest earnings of the Fund; and

(iii) Any other money from any other source accepted for the benefit
of the Fund.

(7) The Fund may be used only for administering the Program.

(8) (i) The State Treasurer shall invest the money of the Fund in the
same manner as other State money may be invested.

(ii) Any interest earnings of the Fund shall be credited to the Fund.

(9) Expenditures from the Fund may be made only in accordance with the
State budget.

[Department] COMMISSION(i) The may adopt regulations necessary to
implement this section.

(j) On or before December 1, 2020, and each December 1 thereafter, the
Commission and the Department shall report to the Governor and, in accordance with §
2–1257 of the State Government Article, the General Assembly, on the implementation of
the Program, including:

(1) The number of students from each local school system who were
prequalified for the Guaranteed Access Grant during each year of the Program;

(2) The race, disability status, and English language learner status of each
participating student who prequalified for the Guaranteed Access Grant each year of the
Program;

(3) The progress of each participating student through the Program,
including high school graduation, institution of higher education matriculation and
retention rates, and, if applicable, institution of higher education graduation rates;

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 197

(4) The potential for allocating additional funds for longitudinal data
collection of the number of students matriculating to institutions of higher education each
year, the number of students receiving retention services each year, and postsecondary
outcomes for those two categories of students;

(5) The amount and quality of services provided by nonprofit organizations
to participating students, including the use of college work–study students and high school
students as mentors and counselors;

(6) The nonprofit organizations that received grants under the Program,
including any other entities that provided services such as institutions of higher education,
the business community, and local schools or local school systems;

(7) The amount of financial aid, in addition to the Guaranteed Access
Grant, that participating students received each year that the students were enrolled in an
institution of higher education; and

(8) Findings and recommendations on the success of the Program and
whether funding for the Program should be continued or expanded.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, ~~That~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~ ~~construed~~ ~~to~~
~~apply~~ ~~only~~ ~~prospectively~~ ~~and~~ ~~may~~ ~~not~~ ~~be~~ ~~applied~~ ~~or~~ ~~interpreted~~ ~~to~~ ~~have~~ ~~any~~ ~~effect~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~
~~application~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~program~~ ~~administrator~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Next~~ ~~Generation~~ ~~Scholars~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~Program~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~fiscal~~ ~~year~~ ~~2025~~ ~~grant~~ ~~cycle.~~

~~SECTION~~ ~~3.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024, and shall be applicable beginning in fiscal year 2026.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 5 –