PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1013

Chapter 1013

(House Bill 651)

AN ACT concerning

St. Mary’s County – Alcoholic Beverages – Beer, Wine, and Liquor Tasting
Permit

FOR the purpose of establishing a beer, wine, and liquor tasting permit in St. Mary’s
County; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in St. Mary’s County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 28–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 28–1308
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

28–102.

This title applies only in St. Mary’s County.

28–1308.

(A) THERE BWLT BEER, WINE, PERMIT.IS A AND LIQUOR TASTING

(B) THE BOARD CLASS AMAY ISSUE THE PERMIT ONLY TO A HOLDER OF A
LICENSE.

(C) THE ON–PREMISESPERMIT AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO ALLOW THE
BEER, WINE, ONLY.CONSUMPTION OF AND LIQUOR FOR TASTING PURPOSES

(D) THE CLASS A BOARDHOLDER OF A LICENSE MAY APPLY FOR AND THE
OF:MAY ISSUE THE PERMIT THAT IS EFFECTIVE FOR A MAXIMUM

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1013 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) 26 PERIOD;ANY DAYS IN A LICENSING

(2) 52 PERIOD;ANY DAYS IN A LICENSING OR

(3) 365 PERIOD.DAYS IN A LICENSING

(E) A BOARD HOLDER’SPERMIT HOLDER SHALL NOTIFY THE OF THE
7INTENT TO HAVE A TASTING AT LEAST DAYS BEFORE THE EVENT IF THE PERMIT IS
ANY:EFFECTIVE FOR

(1) 26 PERIOD;DAYS IN A LICENSING OR

(2) 52 PERIOD.DAYS IN A LICENSING

(F) AN BEER, WINE,INDIVIDUAL MAY CONSUME OR LIQUOR COVERED BY
EXCEEDING:THE LICENSE IN A QUANTITY NOT

(1) 0.5 1.5OUNCE FROM EACH OFFERING AND OUNCES FROM ALL
DAY;OFFERINGS OF LIQUOR IN A

(2) 1 4OUNCE FROM EACH OFFERING AND OUNCES FROM ALL
DAY;OFFERINGS OF WINE IN A AND

(3) 2 8OUNCES FROM EACH OFFERING AND OUNCES FROM ALL
DAY.OFFERINGS OF BEER IN A

(G) THE BEER, WINE,PERMIT AUTHORIZES THE CONSUMPTION OF OR
HOLDER.LIQUOR ONLY ON THE LICENSED PREMISES OF THE

(H) THE ARE:PERMIT FEES

(1) 26FOR A PERMIT THAT IS EFFECTIVE FOR ANY DAYS IN A
PERIOD, $200;LICENSING

(2) 52FOR A PERMIT THAT IS EFFECTIVE FOR ANY DAYS IN A
PERIOD, $250;LICENSING AND

(3) 365FOR A PERMIT THAT IS EFFECTIVE FOR DAYS IN A LICENSING
PERIOD, $300.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1013

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 3 –