PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 504

Chapter 504

(House Bill 700)

AN ACT concerning

Election Law – Election Judges – Revisions

FOR the purpose of requiring the State Board of Elections to develop and implement a
marketing campaign for the recruitment of election judges; requiring that a county
employee who serves as an election judge during hours that the employee is
scheduled to work for the county receive certain administrative leave and certain
election judge compensation; requiring the State Board ~~of~~ ~~Elections~~ to adopt
regulations to standardize and minimize any forms or documentation related to
service as an election judge; prohibiting a local board of elections or county
government from requiring additional forms or documentation related to service as
an election judge in excess of those required in regulations adopted by the State
Board; altering the election judges who previously served as an election judge with
respect to whom certain additional compensation is required to be paid; ~~authorizing~~
~~a~~ ~~public~~ ~~school~~ ~~student~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~to~~ ~~both~~ ~~earn~~ ~~hours~~ ~~toward~~ ~~the~~ ~~service–learning~~
~~graduation~~ ~~requirement~~ ~~and~~ ~~receive~~ ~~election~~ ~~judge~~ ~~compensation~~ ~~for~~ ~~service~~ ~~as~~ ~~an~~
~~election~~ ~~judge;~~ and generally relating to election judges.

BY adding to
Article – Election Law
Section 10–201.1 and 10–202(f)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Election Law
Section 10–202(d) and (e) and 10–205
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Election Law

10–201.1.

(A) THE STATE BOARD SHALL DEVELOP AND ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LOCAL~~
~~BOARDS~~ IMPLEMENT A MARKETING CAMPAIGN TO RECRUIT INDIVIDUALS TO SERVE
STATE.AS ELECTION JUDGES IN POLLING PLACES IN THE

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 504 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) THE SHALL:MARKETING CAMPAIGN

(1) DISSEMINATE INFORMATION ON THE IMPORTANCE OF ELECTION
JUDGES;

(2) DISSEMINATE INFORMATION ON HOW TO APPLY TO BE AN
JUDGE, REQUIREMENTS, COMPENSATION;ELECTION ELIGIBILITY AND AND

(3) POPULATIONS,TARGET DIVERSE VOTER INCLUDING
INDIVIDUALS.MULTILINGUAL

(C) A LOCAL BOARD MAY SUPPLEMENT THE MARKETING CAMPAIGN
STATE BOARD (A) SECTION.IMPLEMENTED BY THE UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS

10–202.

(d) A State employee who serves as an election judge during hoursOR COUNTY
that the employee is otherwise scheduled to work for the State OR COUNTY SHALL
RECEIVE:

[may use](1) 1 hour of administrative leave for each hour of service as an
election judge, up to a total of 8 hours for each day of service; and

[shall receive](2) the election judge compensation as specified in § 10–205
of this subtitle.

(1) [A] SUBJECT (F) SECTION,(e) a local boardTO SUBSECTION OF THIS
may adopt guidelines consistent with the provisions of this title for the determination of
the qualifications of persons considered for appointment and for the process of appointment
as election judges.

(2) To the extent not inconsistent with this subtitle, the guidelines
(1) may provide for theADOPTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
appointment of an election judge, other than the chief judge, to serve for less than a full
day and for the judge to be compensated, on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the fees
set under § 10–205 of this subtitle for a judge serving a full day.

(F) (1) THE STATE BOARD SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO
TO:STANDARDIZE AND MINIMIZE FORMS OR DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED

(I) JUDGE;APPLY TO SERVE AS AN ELECTION

(II) JUDGE;SERVE AS AN ELECTION OR

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 504

(III) RECEIVE COMPENSATION FOR SERVICE AS AN ELECTION
JUDGE.

(2) A LOCAL BOARD OR COUNTY GOVERNMENT MAY NOT REQUIRE
ADDITIONAL FORMS OR DOCUMENTATION FOR ELECTION JUDGES OR PROSPECTIVE
ELECTION JUDGES IN EXCESS OF THE FORMS OR DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED IN
(1) SUBSECTION.REGULATIONS ADOPTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

10–205.

(1) section[, “compensation”](a) In this THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE
INDICATED.MEANINGS

(2) “COMPENSATION” includes stipends for transportation, training, and
bonus payments.

(3) “RETURNING JUDGE”ELECTION MEANS AN ELECTION JUDGE
WHO HAS SERVED A TERM OF OFFICE FOR THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING
ELECTION.~~STATEWIDE~~ ~~PRESIDENTIAL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~GUBERNATORIAL~~ STATEWIDE

(b) (1) (i) The county governing body shall provide sufficient funding to
meet the minimum compensation levels required under this section.

(ii) Within the limits authorized by the county governing body, a
local board may fix the compensation of election judges above the minimum compensation
levels required under this section.

(2) A local board shall pay an election judge for:

(i) each course of instruction required under § 10–206(g)(1) of this
subtitle that the election judge completes; and

(ii) each election day and each early voting day that the election
judge actually serves.

[has(3) (i) For each election judge who not previously served as an
judge]election JUDGE, the compensation for eachIS NOT A RETURNING ELECTION
election day and each early voting day actually served shall be at least $250 per day.

[who(ii) For each election judge has previously servedRETURNING
judge],as an election the compensation for each election day and each early voting day
actually served shall be at least $100 more per day than the compensation provided to an
[has an]election judge who not previously served as election judge.IS NOT A RETURNING

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 504 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) The compensation for each completed course of instruction required
under § 10–206(g)(1) of this subtitle shall be at least $50.

[extra](c) The State Board shall reimburse each local board for $50 of the
compensation required under subsection (b)(3)(ii) of this section that is paidADDITIONAL
to each returning election judge.

[(d) (1) The State Board shall develop and provide to the local boards a
marketing campaign to recruit individuals to serve as election judges in polling places in
the State.

(2) The marketing campaign shall:

(i) disseminate information on the importance of election judges;

(ii) disseminate information on how to apply to be an election judge,
eligibility requirements, and compensation; and

(iii) target diverse voter populations, including multilingual
individuals.]

~~(D)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~JUDGE,~~~~SERVICE~~ ~~AS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ELECTION~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~STUDENT~~ ~~IN~~
~~STATE~~ ~~BOTH:~~~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~

~~(1)~~ ~~SERVICE–LEARNING~~~~EARN~~ ~~HOURS~~ ~~TOWARD~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REQUIREMENT~~
~~COMAR~~ ~~13A.03.02.05;~~~~FOR~~ ~~GRADUATION~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~RECEIVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ELECTION~~ ~~JUDGE~~ ~~COMPENSATION~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect ~~June~~
January 1, ~~2024~~ 2025.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 4 –