PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 565

Chapter 565

(House Bill 710)

AN ACT concerning

Business Regulation – Household Goods Movers – Special Fund and Fees

FOR the purpose of establishing the Household Goods Movers Registration Fund as a
special, nonlapsing fund in the Maryland Department of Labor; requiring that
certain investment earnings be credited to the General Fund; requiring the Secretary
of Labor to annually calculate certain costs; authorizing the Department to set by
regulation certain fees based on certain calculations; prohibiting certain fees from
increasing by more than a certain amount each year; requiring that certain fees in
effect on a certain date shall remain in effect until certain other fees are adopted and
become effective; and generally relating to the Household Goods Movers Registration
Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Business Regulation
Section 2–106.15, 2–106.16, and 8.5–105.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 8.5–101
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 8.5–103 and 8.5–105
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Business Regulation

2–106.15.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” HOUSEHOLD GOODS MOVERSTHIS MEANS THE
REGISTRATION FUND.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 565 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) (1) THERE HOUSEHOLD GOODS MOVERS REGISTRATION FUNDIS A
DEPARTMENT.IN THE

(2) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(C) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PAY ALL FEES COLLECTED UNDER
TITLE 8.5 COMPTROLLER.OF THIS ARTICLE TO THE

(2) THE COMPTROLLER FUND.SHALL DISTRIBUTE THE FEES TO THE

(D) THE FUND SHALL BE USED TO COVER THE ACTUAL DOCUMENTED
DIRECT AND INDIRECT COSTS OF FULFILLING THE STATUTORY AND REGULATORY
DEPARTMENT TITLE 8.5 ARTICLE.DUTIES OF THE UNDER OF THIS

(E) THE SECRETARY SECRETARYOR A DESIGNEE OF THE SHALL
FUND.ADMINISTER THE

(F) THE LEGISLATIVE AUDITOR SHALL AUDIT THE ACCOUNTS AND
FUND § 2–1220 STATETRANSACTIONS OF THE AS PROVIDED IN OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

(G) ANY FUNDINVESTMENT EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO THE
GENERAL FUND STATE.OF THE

2–106.16.

(A) THE SECRETARY SHALL ANNUALLY CALCULATE THE DIRECT AND
DEPARTMENT TITLE 8.5INDIRECT COSTS ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE UNDER OF THIS
ARTICLE.

(B) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ESTABLISH FEES BASED ON THE
SECRETARY SECTION.CALCULATIONS PROVIDED BY THE UNDER THIS

(C) EACH DEPARTMENT TITLE 8.5FEE ESTABLISHED BY THE UNDER OF
12.5%THIS ARTICLE MAY NOT BE INCREASED ANNUALLY BY MORE THAN OF THE
DEPARTMENT TITLE 8.5EXISTING AND CORRESPONDING FEES OF THE UNDER OF
ARTICLE.THIS

8.5–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 565

(b) “Household goods movers” has the meaning stated in § 14–3101 of the
Commercial Law Article.

(c) “Household goods moving services” has the meaning stated in § 14–3101 of the
Commercial Law Article.

8.5–103.

To apply for registration as a household goods mover, an applicant shall:

(1) submit to the Department an application on the form provided by the
Department; and

[established](2) pay the Department an application fee by theSET
Department.

8.5–105.

[established](a) A household goods mover shall pay an annual registration fee
by the Department.SET

(b) On approval of a new or renewal application, the Department shall assign a
unique registration number and issue an annual registration to the applicant.

(c) A household goods mover shall retain a copy of its annual registration in each
vehicle used to perform household goods moving services.

8.5–105.1.

(A) (1) THE DEPARTMENT MAY SET BY REGULATION REASONABLE FEES
TITLE.FOR ITS SERVICES TO CARRY OUT THIS

(2) THE BE:FEES CHARGED SHALL

(I) SET SO AS TO PRODUCE FUNDS TO APPROXIMATE THE COST
DEPARTMENT TITLE;OF MAINTAINING THE DUTIES OF THE UNDER THIS AND

(II) BASED ON THE CALCULATIONS PERFORMED BY THE
SECRETARY § 2–106.16 ARTICLE.UNDER OF THIS

(B) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PUBLISH A SCHEDULE OF FEES SET BY THE
DEPARTMENT.

(C) (1) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PAY ALL FEES COLLECTED UNDER THIS
COMPTROLLER.TITLE TO THE
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 565 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) THE COMPTROLLER SHALL DISTRIBUTE THE FEES TO THE
HOUSEHOLD GOODS MOVERS REGISTRATION FUND § 2–106.15ESTABLISHED IN OF
ARTICLE.THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the fees set forth in Title 8.5
of the Business Regulation Article, in effect on June 30, 2024, shall remain in full force and
effect until the fees authorized by the Maryland Department of Labor under this Act are
adopted and become effective.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 4 –