PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 193

Chapter 193

(House Bill 773)

AN ACT concerning

Human Services – Individuals With Disabilities and Service–Disabled Veterans
Boating Fund

FOR the purpose of establishing the Individuals With Disabilities and Service–Disabled
Veterans Boating Fund; requiring the Department of Disabilities to administer the
Fund; establishing the qualifications for certain organizations to receive grants from
the Fund; ~~authorizing~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor~~ ~~to~~ ~~include~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~annual~~ ~~budget~~ ~~bill~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~
~~appropriation~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~Fund;~~ and generally relating to the Individuals With
Disabilities and Service–Disabled Veterans Boating Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Human Services
Section 7–1101 and 7–1102 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 11. Individuals
With Disabilities and Service–Disabled Veterans Boating Fund”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Human Services

SUBTITLE 11. INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES SERVICE–DISABLEDAND
VETERANS BOATING FUND.

7–1101.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “DEPARTMENT” DEPARTMENT DISABILITIES.MEANS THE OF

(C) “FUND” INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIESMEANS THE AND
SERVICE–DISABLED VETERANS BOATING FUND.

(D) (1) “INDIVIDUALS DISABILITIES”WITH MEANS INDIVIDUALS
AMERICANSCONSIDERED DISABLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FEDERAL WITH
DISABILITIES ACT 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12102.OF

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 193 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) “INDIVIDUALS DISABILITIES”WITH INCLUDES INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES.LEARNING

(E) “SECRETARY” SECRETARY DISABILITIES.MEANS THE OF

(F) “SERVICE–DISABLED VETERAN” MEANS A VETERAN WITH A DISABILITY
SERVICE–CONNECTED, 38 U.S.C. § 101(16).THAT IS AS DEFINED IN

7–1102.

(A) THERE INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIESIS AN AND
SERVICE–DISABLED VETERANS BOATING FUND.

(B) THE FUND SAILING, BOATING,PURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE
KAYAKING, CANOEING, PADDLEBOARDING,~~AND~~ ~~PADDLEBOARDING~~ AND SURFING
SERVICE–DISABLEDOPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES AND
VETERANS.

(C) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE AND

(2) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(F) THE FUND FOR:MAY BE USED ONLY

(1) STATE SECTION;PROVIDING GRANTS UNDER THIS AND

(2) DEPARTMENTADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES OF THE IN
FUND.ADMINISTERING THE

(G) ~~IN~~ ~~2026~~ ~~THEREAFTER,~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~
~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~
~~$500,000~~ ~~FUND~~ ~~STATE~~~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PURPOSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MAKING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GRANTS~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~SECTION.~~~~THIS~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 193

~~(H)~~ (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
DEPARTMENT $40,000MAY PROVIDE A GRANT OF NOT MORE THAN IN A FISCAL YEAR
SAILING, BOATING, KAYAKING, CANOEING,TO A GRANTEE TO PROVIDE ~~OR~~
PADDLEBOARDING,~~PADDLEBOARDING~~ OR SURFING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
SERVICE–DISABLED VETERANS.INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES OR

(2) THE DEPARTMENT MAY PROVIDE GRANTS UNDER THIS SECTION
THAT:ONLY TO A NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION IN GOOD STANDING

(I) § 501(C)(3) INTERNALIS QUALIFIED UNDER OF THE
REVENUE CODE;

(II) 3 YEARS,HAS BEEN IN OPERATION FOR AT LEAST
NOTWITHSTANDING A CESSATION OF OPERATIONS DURING A NATIONAL OR PUBLIC
ISSUED:HEALTH EMERGENCY

1. PRESIDENT UNITED STATES §BY THE OF THE UNDER
201, § 202(D), § 301 NATIONAL EMERGENCIES ACT;OR OF THE FEDERAL OR

2. SECRETARY HEALTH HUMANBY THE OF AND
SERVICES PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT;UNDER THE FEDERAL AND

(III) HAS ENGAGED INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES OR
SERVICE–DISABLED SAILING, BOATING, KAYAKING, CANOEING,VETERANS IN ~~OR~~
PADDLEBOARDING,~~PADDLEBOARDING~~ OR SURFING ACTIVITIES ON ~~THE~~
~~CHESAPEAKE~~ ~~BAY~~ STATE 25~~OR~~ ~~ITS~~ ~~TRIBUTARIES~~ WATERS AT LEAST TIMES IN EACH
3 YEARS.OF THE PAST

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 3 –