PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 528

Chapter 528

(House Bill 787)

AN ACT concerning

Allegany County – Allegany Regional Recreational Economic Development
Authority – Established

FOR the purpose of establishing the Allegany Regional Recreational Economic
Development Authority in Allegany County to support the development and
construction of regional recreation facilities to benefit residents and the economic
development of Allegany County; and generally relating to the Allegany Regional
Recreational Economic Development Authority.

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 12–1101 through 12–1106 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 11. Allegany
Regional Recreational Economic Development Authority”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

SUBTITLE 11. ALLEGANY REGIONAL RECREATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY.

12–1101.

IN SUBTITLE, “AUTHORITY” ALLEGANY REGIONALTHIS MEANS THE
RECREATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.

12–1102.

THERE ALLEGANY REGIONAL RECREATIONAL ECONOMICIS AN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY ALLEGANY COUNTY.IN

12–1103.

THE AUTHORITY MEMBERS:CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 528 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) PRESIDENT ALLEGANY COUNTY COMMISSIONERS,THE OF THE
PRESIDENT’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

(2) PRESIDENT FROSTBURG STATE UNIVERSITY,THE OF OR THE
PRESIDENT’S DESIGNEE;

(3) PRESIDENT ALLEGANY COLLEGE, PRESIDENT’STHE OF OR THE
DESIGNEE;

(4) CUMBERLAND, MAYOR’S DESIGNEE;THE MAYOR OF OR THE

(5) FROSTBURG, MAYOR’S DESIGNEE;THE MAYOR OF OR THE

(6) PRESIDENT ALLEGANY COUNTY BOARDTHE OF THE OF
EDUCATION, PRESIDENT’S DESIGNEE;OR THE AND

(7) ALLEGANY COUNTYONE MEMBER WHO IS A RESIDENT OF
GENERAL ASSEMBLYDESIGNATED BY THE MEMBERS OF THE THAT REPRESENT
ALLEGANY COUNTY.

12–1104.

(A) THE AUTHORITY MAY MANAGE APPROPRIATED FUNDS FROM
ALLEGANY COUNTY, CUMBERLANDTHE MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS OF AND
FROSTBURG, STATE.AND THE

(B) THE AUTHORITY MAY RECEIVE DONATED SERVICES FROM
SUBTITLE.PROFESSIONALS AS NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THIS

(C) THE AUTHORITY SUPERVISE, MANAGE,MAY AND TERMINATE STAFF
NECESSARY.AND CONSULTANTS AS

12–1105.

A AUTHORITY:MEMBER OF THE

(1) MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
AUTHORITY; BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 528

12–1106.

(A) THE AUTHORITY SHALL SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT AND
CONSTRUCTION OF REGIONAL RECREATION FACILITIES TO BENEFIT RESIDENTS
ALLEGANY COUNTY, INCLUDING:AND THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF

(1) FIELDS;ATHLETIC

(2) FACILITIES;INDOOR ATHLETIC AND

(3) OTHER FACILITIES DESIGNED TO CREATE RECREATIONAL
TOURISM.

(B) ON OCTOBER 31, 2025, OCTOBER 31OR BEFORE AND EACH
THEREAFTER, AUTHORITY GOVERNORTHE SHALL REPORT ITS ACTIVITIES TO THE
AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE TO
SENATE BUDGET TAXATION COMMITTEE, HOUSE APPROPRIATIONSTHE AND THE
COMMITTEE, HOUSE WAYS MEANS COMMITTEE.AND THE AND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 5 years and, at the end of June 30, 2029,
this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and
of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 3 –