PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 244

Chapter 244

(House Bill 805)

AN ACT concerning

Cannabis – Licensee Locations – Restrictions

FOR the purpose of altering the distance restrictions applicable to a licensed cannabis
dispensary; prohibiting a political subdivision from establishing certain zoning
requirements for licensed cannabis dispensaries and certain licensed cannabis
growers that are more restrictive than certain zoning restrictions applicable to
certain other entities; clarifying the authority of a political subdivision to alter
certain distance requirements; authorizing certain individuals to file a protest with
the Maryland Cannabis Administration against the renewal of a cannabis license;
establishing standards and requirements for the Administration’s consideration of a
protest; ~~authorizing~~ ~~certain~~ ~~individuals~~ ~~to~~ ~~file~~ ~~a~~ ~~protest~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Cannabis~~
~~Administration~~ ~~against~~ ~~the~~ ~~renewal~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~cannabis~~ ~~license;~~ ~~establishing~~ ~~standards~~
~~and~~ ~~requirements~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~Administration’s~~ ~~consideration~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~protest;~~ requiring a
political subdivision to grant a waiver to certain zoning requirements to a licensed
cannabis dispensary that was operating before a certain date; and generally relating
to cannabis licensees and zoning restrictions.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 1–101(a) and (dd)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 36–405 and 36–410
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 36–411
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Alcoholic~~ ~~Beverages~~ ~~and~~ ~~Cannabis~~
~~Section~~ ~~36–411~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2016~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 244 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

1–101.

(a) In this article the following words have the meanings indicated.

(dd) (1) “Retail dealer” means a person that sells an alcoholic beverage to any
person other than a license holder.

(2) “Retail dealer” includes a county dispensary.

36–405.

IN SECTION, “UNDULY BURDEN”(a) THIS INCLUDES IMPOSING A ZONING
REQUIREMENT OR RESTRICTION ON THE USE OF PROPERTY BY A CANNABIS
LICENSEE THAT IS MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN THE REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED
§ 36–410 SUBTITLE.UNDER OF THIS

(B) A political subdivision may:

(1) establish reasonable zoning requirements for cannabis businesses; and

(2) decide how to distribute its allocation of revenue under § 2–1302.2 of
the Tax – General Article.

[(b)] (C) A political subdivision may not:

(1) establish zoning or other requirements that unduly burden a cannabis
licensee;

(2) impose licensing, operating, or other fees or requirements on a cannabis
licensee that are disproportionately greater or more burdensome than those imposed on
other businesses with a similar impact on the area where the cannabis licensee is located;

(3) prohibit transportation through or deliveries within the political
subdivision by cannabis businesses located in other political subdivisions;

(4) prevent an entity whose license may be converted under §
36–401(b)(1)(ii) of this subtitle and that is in compliance with all relevant medical cannabis
regulations from being granted the license conversion; or

(5) negotiate or enter into an agreement with a cannabis licensee or an
applicant for a cannabis license requiring that the cannabis licensee or applicant provide

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 244

money, donations, in–kind contributions, services, or anything of value to the political
subdivision.

[(c)] (D) The use of a facility by a cannabis licensee is not required to be
submitted to, or approved by, a county or municipal zoning board, authority, or unit if ~~the~~
~~facility:~~

(1) was properly zoned and operating on or before JanuaryTHE FACILITY
1, 2023; or

(2) ~~is~~ ~~used~~ ~~by~~ ~~a~~ ~~grower,~~ ~~processor,~~ ~~or~~ ~~dispensary~~ ~~that~~ THE CANNABIS
LICENSEE:

(i) held a Stage One Preapproval for a license before October 1,
2022; and

GROWING,(ii) was not ~~operational~~ ACTIVELY ENGAGED IN THE
PROCESSING, before October 1, 2022.OR DISPENSING OF CANNABIS

[(d)] (E) A political subdivision or special taxing district may not impose a tax
on cannabis.

36–410.

(a) Beginning July 1, 2023, a cannabis licensee that is operating a dispensary
shall:

(1) ensure that it has adequate supply for qualifying patients and
caregivers;

(2) set aside operating hours or dedicated service lines to serve only
qualifying patients and caregivers; and

(3) ensure that at least 25% of cannabis and cannabis products in the
dispensary are from social equity licensees and growers and processors that do not share
common ownership with the dispensary.

(b) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, a licensed dispensary may
not locate within:

(1) 500 feet of:

(i) a pre–existing primary or secondary school in the State, or a
licensed child care center or registered family child care home under Title 9.5 of the
Education Article; or

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 244 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

PRE–EXISTING [or](ii) a playground, recreation center, library,
park,public WORSHIP; orOR PLACE OF

(2) 1,000 feet of another dispensary under this title.

(1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,(c) ~~A~~ AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
reducing, INCREASING,political subdivision may adopt an ordinance theA BUT NOT
distance requirements under subsection (b) of this section.

(2) A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION MAY BY ORDINANCE INCREASE THE
(B)(2)DISTANCE LIMITATION FOR DISPENSARIES UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
~~2,000~~ ONE–HALF MILE.SECTION TO NOT MORE THAN ~~FEET~~

(d) The distance requirements under subsection (b) of this section do not apply to
a dispensary license that was:

(1) converted under § 36–401(b)(1)(ii) of this subtitle; and

(2) properly zoned and operating before July 1, 2023.

(E) A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION MAY NOT ADOPT AN ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING ZONING REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSED DISPENSARIES THAT ARE
MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN ZONING REQUIREMENTS FOR A RETAIL DEALER LICENSED
ARTICLE.UNDER THIS

(F) A ORDINANCE:POLITICAL SUBDIVISION MAY NOT ADOPT AN

(1) ESTABLISHING A ZONING REQUIREMENT FOR A LICENSED
GROWER CULTIVATING CANNABIS EXCLUSIVELY OUTDOORS IN AN AREA ZONED
ONLY FOR AGRICULTURAL USE THAT IS MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN ANY ZONING
JUNE 30, 2023,REQUIREMENTS THAT EXISTED ON GOVERNING A HEMP FARM
TITLE 14 AGRICULTURE ARTICLEREGISTERED UNDER OF THE IN THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION; OR

(2) PROHIBITING OUTDOOR CANNABIS CULTIVATION ON A PREMISES
THAT WAS PROPERLY ZONED FOR OUTDOOR CANNABIS CULTIVATION ON OR BEFORE
JUNE 30, 2023.

(G) A MAY:POLITICAL SUBDIVISION

(1) ORDINANCE,BY ESTABLISH A DISTANCE LIMITATION FOR
100 USE;DISPENSARIES OF UP TO FEET FROM AN AREA ZONED FOR RESIDENTIAL OR

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 244

(2) APPLY TO DISPENSARIES THE DISTANCE LIMITATION FOR
LICENSED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE RETAILERS FROM AN AREA ZONED FOR
USE.RESIDENTIAL

(H) A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION SHALL GRANT A WAIVER TO AN ORDINANCE
THAT PROVIDES A DISTANCE REQUIREMENT FOR DISPENSARIES UNDER THIS
APRIL 1,SECTION FOR A LICENSED DISPENSARY THAT WAS IN OPERATION BEFORE
2024.

36–411.

(A) (1) A PROTEST AGAINST A LICENSE RENEWAL MAY BE FILED WITH THE
ADMINISTRATION 10 ARE:BY AT LEAST INDIVIDUALS WHO

(I) RESIDENTS, COMMERCIAL TENANTS WHO ARE NOT HOLDERS
LICENSE, OWNERS;OF OR APPLICANTS FOR A OR REAL ESTATE AND

(II) 1,000 PREMISES.LOCATED WITHIN FEET OF THE LICENSED

(2) A SHALL:PROTEST AGAINST A LICENSE RENEWAL

(I) OF:BE ON THE BASIS

1. TITLE;A VIOLATION OF THIS

2. LAW;A VIOLATION OF CIVIL OR CRIMINAL

3. CONDUCT BY A LICENSEE THAT CREATES OR
MAINTAINS CONDITIONS THAT ALLOW OTHER INDIVIDUALS TO ACT IN A MANNER
PEACE, INCLUDING:THAT DISTURBS THE PUBLIC

A. RIGHTS–OF–WAYOBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BY
CROWDS;UNRULY

B. ASSAULT, BATTERY, OR OTHER DISORDERLY
PEACE;CONDUCT THAT DISTURBS THE PUBLIC

C. VANDALISM; OR

D. LITTERING; OR

4. ANY OTHER VIOLATION ESTABLISHED BY THE
ADMINISTRATION REGULATION;BY AND

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 244 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) OATH.BE SIGNED UNDER

(B) (1) EXCEPT (2)AS PROVIDED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, 30IF A PROTEST AGAINST A LICENSE RENEWAL IS FILED AT LEAST
EXPIRES, ADMINISTRATIONDAYS BEFORE THE LICENSE THE MAY NOT APPROVE THE
HEARING.RENEWAL WITHOUT HOLDING A

(2) THE ADMINISTRATION MAY APPROVE A LICENSE RENEWAL
ADMINISTRATIONWITHOUT A HEARING IF THE FINDS THAT THE BASIS OF THE
GROUND.PROTEST FILED AGAINST THE RENEWAL IS WITHOUT ANY REASONABLE

(C) IN HEARING AND MAKING A DETERMINATION ON A PROTEST FILED
RENEWAL, ADMINISTRATION:AGAINST A LICENSE THE

(1) ONLY:MAY CONSIDER

(I) ISSUES ARISING OUT OF SPECIFIC COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE
PREMISES;OPERATION OF THE LICENSED AND

(II) THE PERFORMANCE OF THE LICENSE HOLDER FOR THE
4–YEAR PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DATE OF THE RENEWAL
APPLICATION; AND

(2) ISSUES.MAY NOT CONSIDER ZONING

(D) THE ADMINISTRATION MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THIS
SECTION.

~~36–411.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROTEST~~ ~~AGAINST~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~RENEWAL~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~BE~~ ~~FILED~~ ~~WITH~~
~~ADMINISTRATION~~ ~~10~~ ~~ARE:~~~~THE~~ ~~BY~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~WHO~~

~~(I)~~ ~~RESIDENTS,~~ ~~COMMERCIAL~~ ~~TENANTS~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~NOT~~
~~LICENSE,~~ ~~OWNERS;~~~~HOLDERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~APPLICANTS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~ ~~OR~~ ~~REAL~~ ~~ESTATE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~1,000~~ ~~PREMISES.~~~~LOCATED~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~FEET~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSED~~

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~ ~~SHALL:~~~~PROTEST~~ ~~AGAINST~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~RENEWAL~~

~~(I)~~ ~~OF:~~~~BE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BASIS~~

~~1.~~ ~~TITLE;~~~~A~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 244

~~2.~~ ~~LAW;~~~~A~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~CIVIL~~ ~~OR~~ ~~CRIMINAL~~

~~3.~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSEE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~CREATES~~ ~~OR~~
~~MAINTAINS~~ ~~CONDITIONS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~ALLOW~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ACT~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~MANNER~~
~~PEACE,~~ ~~INCLUDING:~~~~THAT~~ ~~DISTURBS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~

~~A.~~ ~~RIGHTS–OF–WAY~~~~OBSTRUCTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~BY~~
~~CROWDS;~~~~UNRULY~~

~~B.~~ ~~ASSAULT,~~ ~~BATTERY,~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~DISORDERLY~~
~~PEACE;~~~~CONDUCT~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~DISTURBS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~

~~C.~~ ~~VANDALISM;~~ ~~OR~~

~~D.~~ ~~LITTERING;~~ ~~OR~~

~~4.~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~ADMINISTRATION~~ ~~REGULATION;~~~~BY~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~OATH.~~~~BE~~ ~~SIGNED~~ ~~UNDER~~

~~(B)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~EXCEPT~~ ~~(2)~~~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SUBSECTION,~~ ~~30~~~~IF~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROTEST~~ ~~AGAINST~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~RENEWAL~~ ~~IS~~ ~~FILED~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~
~~EXPIRES,~~ ~~ADMINISTRATION~~~~DAYS~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~APPROVE~~ ~~THE~~
~~HEARING.~~~~RENEWAL~~ ~~WITHOUT~~ ~~HOLDING~~ ~~A~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ADMINISTRATION~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~APPROVE~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~RENEWAL~~
~~ADMINISTRATION~~~~WITHOUT~~ ~~A~~ ~~HEARING~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FINDS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BASIS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~GROUND.~~~~PROTEST~~ ~~FILED~~ ~~AGAINST~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RENEWAL~~ ~~IS~~ ~~WITHOUT~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~REASONABLE~~

~~(C)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~HEARING~~ ~~AND~~ ~~MAKING~~ ~~A~~ ~~DETERMINATION~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~ ~~PROTEST~~ ~~FILED~~
~~RENEWAL,~~ ~~ADMINISTRATION:~~~~AGAINST~~ ~~A~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~THE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~ONLY:~~~~MAY~~ ~~CONSIDER~~

~~(I)~~ ~~ISSUES~~ ~~ARISING~~ ~~OUT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~SPECIFIC~~ ~~COMPLAINTS~~ ~~ABOUT~~ ~~THE~~
~~PREMISES;~~~~OPERATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSED~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERFORMANCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~LICENSE~~ ~~HOLDER~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~4–YEAR~~ ~~PERIOD~~ ~~IMMEDIATELY~~ ~~PRECEDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DATE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~RENEWAL~~
~~APPLICATION;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~ISSUES.~~~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~CONSIDER~~ ~~ZONING~~

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 244 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(D)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ADMINISTRATION~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~ADOPT~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~IMPLEMENT~~ ~~THIS~~
~~SECTION.~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 8 –