PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 469

Chapter 469

(House Bill 809)

AN ACT concerning

Members of Boards, Committees, Commissions, Task Forces, or Workgroups –
Removal or Suspension

FOR the purpose of providing that a member of a certain board, committee, commission,
task force, or workgroup created by State law may be removed or suspended for
misconduct, incompetence, neglect of duties, or other good cause by the individual or
entity that appointed the member under certain circumstances; requiring certain
procedures to be followed before a certain member may be removed or suspended;
providing that this Act is not intended to limit certain rights of members; and
generally relating to the removal or suspension of members of boards, committees,
commissions, task forces, and workgroups.

BY adding to
Article – State Government
Section 10–1701 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 17. Miscellaneous”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

SUBTITLE 17. MISCELLANEOUS.

10–1701.

(A) IN SECTION, “MEMBER”THIS MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL APPOINTED FOR A
BOARD, COMMITTEE, COMMISSION, FORCE,FIXED TERM TO A TASK OR WORKGROUP
STATE LAW.CREATED BY

(B) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO THE REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION OF A
FROM:MEMBER

(1) COMMITTEE, § 2–101A STANDING AS DEFINED IN OF THIS
ARTICLE; OR

(2) TITLE 2 ARTICLE.A COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 469 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(C) EXCEPT LAW, BOARD,AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED BY A MEMBER OF A
COMMITTEE, COMMISSION, FORCE, STATETASK OR WORKGROUP CREATED BY LAW
MISCONDUCT, INCOMPETENCE,MAY BE REMOVED OR SUSPENDED FOR NEGLECT OF
DUTIES, OR OTHER GOOD CAUSE BY THE INDIVIDUAL OR ENTITY THAT APPOINTED
MEMBER.THE

(D) (1) ~~AN~~ EXCEPT (2)AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, AN INDIVIDUAL OR ENTITY THAT APPOINTED A MEMBER MAY REMOVE
(C)OR SUSPEND THE MEMBER IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION
AFTER:ONLY

~~(1)~~ (I) BOARD,CONSULTATION WITH THE CHAIR OF THE
COMMITTEE, COMMISSION, FORCE, WORKGROUP;TASK OR AND

~~(2)~~ (II) THE MEMBER HAS BEEN GIVEN NOTICE AND AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD REGARDING THE REASON FOR REMOVAL OR
SUSPENSION.

(2) THE (1)(I)REQUIREMENTS OF PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
DO NOT APPLY IF THE MEMBER BEING REMOVED OR SUSPENDED IS THE CHAIR OF
BOARD, COMMITTEE, COMMISSION, FORCE, WORKGROUP.THE TASK OR

(E) NOTHING IN THIS SECTION IS INTENDED TO LIMIT THE RIGHTS OF A
MEMBER’SMEMBER TO EXPRESS THE VIEWS ON MATTERS OF PUBLIC CONCERN TO
OFFICIAL, § 5–101THE FULLEST EXTENT PROTECTED FOR A PUBLIC AS DEFINED IN
GENERAL PROVISIONS ARTICLE, U.S. CONSTITUTIONOF THE BY THE OR BY THE
MARYLAND CONSTITUTION.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 2 –