PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 342

Chapter 342

(House Bill 811)

AN ACT concerning

Higher Education – Financial Well–Being Pilot Program – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Financial Well–Being Pilot Program to provide
comprehensive financial guidance, support, and coaching to help students who may
benefit from financial coaching services; and generally relating to the establishment
of the Financial Well–Being Pilot Program.

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 11–1901 through 11–1905 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 19.
Financial Well–Being Pilot Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

SUBTITLE 19. FINANCIAL WELL–BEING PILOT PROGRAM.

11–1901.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “GOVERNING ENTITY” MEANS:

(1) THE PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY MARYLAND, COLLEGEOF THE OF
PARK CAMPUS; OR

(2) THE PRESIDENT MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY.OF

(C) “PARTICIPATING EDUCATION”INSTITUTION OF HIGHER MEANS THE
UNIVERSITY MARYLAND, COLLEGE PARK CAMPUS MORGAN STATEOF AND
UNIVERSITY.

(D) “PILOT PROGRAM” FINANCIAL WELL–BEING PILOTMEANS THE
PROGRAM.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 342 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(E) “STUDENTS SERVICES”WHO MAY BENEFIT FROM FINANCIAL COACHING
WHO:MEANS STUDENTS

(1) ARE DEALING WITH SIGNIFICANT PERSONAL FINANCIAL
DEBTS;BURDENS OR COMPLEX STUDENT LOAN

(2) ARE EXPERIENCING HIGH LEVELS OF ANXIETY DUE TO PERSONAL
BURDENS;FINANCIAL OR

(3) LACK SKILLS.FINANCIAL LITERACY KNOWLEDGE OR

11–1902.

(A) THERE FINANCIAL WELL–BEING PILOT PROGRAMIS A AT THE
UNIVERSITY MARYLAND, COLLEGE PARK CAMPUS MORGAN STATEOF AND
UNIVERSITY.

(B) THE PILOT PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE
GUIDANCE, SUPPORT,COMPREHENSIVE FINANCIAL AND COACHING TO HELP
SERVICES.STUDENTS WHO MAY BENEFIT FROM FINANCIAL COACHING

(C) THE PILOT PROGRAM SHALL BE ADMINISTERED AT EACH
COMMISSIONPARTICIPATING INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION JOINTLY BY THE
INSTITUTION.AND THE GOVERNING ENTITY OF THE PARTICIPATING

11–1903.

(A) ON AUGUST 1, 2024,OR BEFORE EACH PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION OF
FULL–TIME WELL–BEINGHIGHER EDUCATION SHALL HIRE ONE FINANCIAL COACH
TO PROVIDE PERSONALIZED FINANCIAL COACHING SERVICES TO STUDENTS WHO
SERVICES.MAY BENEFIT FROM FINANCIAL COACHING

(B) EACH PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION SHALL
CREATE A SYSTEM THAT ALLOWS THE INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION TO
IDENTIFY ENROLLED AND ADMITTED STUDENTS WHO MAY BENEFIT FROM
SERVICES.FINANCIAL COACHING

11–1904.

(A) A WELL–BEING SHALL:FINANCIAL COACH

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 342

(1) (I) ASSIST STUDENTS’STUDENTS IN UNDERSTANDING THE
RESOURCES;PERSONAL FINANCIAL NEEDS AND

(II) ASSIST STUDENTS IN THE PROCESS OF MAKING INFORMED
DECISIONS;PERSONAL FINANCIAL

(III) SHARE RELEVANT FINANCIAL LITERACY RESOURCES WITH
STUDENTS; AND

(IV) ASSIST STUDENTS IN MANAGING PERSONAL FINANCIAL
GRADUATION;OBLIGATIONS DURING COLLEGE AND AFTER

(2) WHILE (1)PROVIDING THE SUPPORT SERVICES LISTED IN ITEM
SUBSECTION, ON:OF THIS FOCUS

(I) THE BEHAVIORAL AND EMOTIONAL ASPECTS OF PERSONAL
FINANCES; AND

(II) HOW A STUDENT CAN SUCCESSFULLY ACHIEVE PERSONAL
HABITS;FINANCIAL GOALS AND ESTABLISH HEALTHY FINANCIAL

(3) CARRY A CASELOAD THAT IS COMPARABLE TO THE CASELOAD OF
AN ACADEMIC ADVISOR AT THE PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION OF HIGHER
EDUCATION;

(4) SURVEY EACH STUDENT BEFORE THE STUDENT BEGINS
FINANCIAL COACHING SERVICES AND AFTER THE STUDENT COMPLETES FINANCIAL
COACHING SERVICES AND EVALUATE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE FINANCIAL
SERVICES;COACHING AND

(5) AT PILOT PROGRAM,THE END OF THE CREATE A DOCUMENT
PRACTICES, PROCESSES,WITH BEST AND GUIDANCE THAT OTHER INSTITUTIONS OF
WELL–BEINGHIGHER EDUCATION CAN USE TO CREATE A FINANCIAL COACHING
PROGRAM.

(B) (1) A WELL–BEINGFINANCIAL COACH MAY PROVIDE FINANCIAL
SETTINGS:COACHING SERVICES TO STUDENTS IN THE FOLLOWING

(I) GROUP SESSIONS;COACHING

(II) INDIVIDUAL SESSIONS;COACHING AND

(III) DURING WELL–BEING COACH’S DROP–INTHE FINANCIAL
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 342 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

HOURS.ADVISORY

(2) WHEN SESSIONS,SCHEDULING INDIVIDUAL COACHING A
WELL–BEING WHO:FINANCIAL COACH SHALL PRIORITIZE STUDENTS

(I) MOST LIKELY WILL HAVE A DEBT TO POTENTIAL FUTURE
10%INCOME RATIO THAT WILL LEAD TO A MONTHLY LOAN PAYMENT GREATER THAN
STUDENT’S INCOME;OF THE PROJECTED FUTURE

(II) HAVE AN ANNUAL HOUSEHOLD INCOME THAT IS AT OR
185%BELOW OF THE FEDERAL POVERTY LEVEL AS DETERMINED ANNUALLY BY THE
U.S. DEPARTMENT HEALTH HUMAN SERVICES;OF AND OR

(III) LACK FINANCIAL SKILLS AND FINANCIAL LITERACY
EDUCATION.

11–1905.

(A) (1) ON JUNE 1, 2025,OR BEFORE EACH PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION
COMMISSIONOF HIGHER EDUCATION SHALL SUBMIT AN INTERIM REPORT TO THE
PILOT PROGRAM.ON THE STATUS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE

(2) ON JUNE 1, 2026,OR BEFORE EACH PARTICIPATING INSTITUTION
COMMISSIONOF HIGHER EDUCATION SHALL SUBMIT A FINAL REPORT TO THE ON
PILOT PROGRAM.THE STATUS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE

(B) ON JULY 1, 2025, COMMISSIONOR BEFORE THE SHALL SUBMIT AN
STATE,INTERIM REPORT TO EACH INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN THE THE
GOVERNOR, AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTIN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY PILOT PROGRAM.THE ON THE OPERATION OF THE

(C) ON JULY 1, 2026, COMMISSIONOR BEFORE THE SHALL SUBMIT A FINAL
STATE,REPORT TO EACH INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN THE THE
GOVERNOR, AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENTIN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYTHE ON THE OPERATION AND RESULTS OF THE
PILOT PROGRAM.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 3 years and 1 month and, at the end of July
31, 2027, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be
abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 4 –