PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 653

Chapter 653

(House Bill 850)

AN ACT concerning

State Procurement – Small Business Preference Procurement

FOR the purpose of requiring each procurement unit to establish a price preference for
small businesses; designating the Board of Public Works as the regulatory authority
for the Small Business Preference Program; ~~specifying~~ ~~the~~ ~~manner~~ ~~in~~ ~~which~~ ~~a~~ ~~unit~~
~~may~~ ~~achieve~~ ~~targets~~ ~~for~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~awards~~ ~~to~~ ~~small~~ ~~businesses;~~ and generally
relating to small business procurement.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 14–202 through 14–207 ~~and~~ ~~14–502(e)~~
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~without~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~State~~ ~~Finance~~ ~~and~~ ~~Procurement~~
~~Section~~ ~~14–502(c)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2021~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Finance and Procurement

14–202.

(a) This subtitle applies to procurement of supplies, services, and construction
by[:related services

(1) the Department of General Services;

(2) the Department of Transportation;

(3) the University System of Maryland;

(4) Morgan State University; and

(5) as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the Department of Public
Safety and Correctional Services in connection with construction of a State correctional

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 653 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

article] EXECUTIVEfacility under § 12–107 of this ANY UNIT OR AGENCY OF THE
BRANCH STATE GOVERNMENT.OF

(b) For procurements in connection with the construction of a State correctional
facility, the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services shall:

(1) apply the percentage price preferences established by the Department
of General Services under this subtitle; and

(2) follow the same procedures established by the Department of General
Services to comply with this subtitle.

14–203.

[Secretary(a) By regulation, the of General Services, the Secretary of
Transportation, the Chancellor of the University System of Maryland, and the President of
each] BOARDMorgan State University shall specify the criteria that a business must meet
to qualify as a small business.

(b) (1) The criteria for qualification as a small business may vary among
industries to reflect their particular characteristics.

(2) Regulations adopted under this section shall include, for each class of
business, the maximum number of employees a business may have to qualify as a small
business.

(c) The regulations adopted under subsection (a) of this section shall require the
qualification of a business as a small business for the exclusive purpose of pursuing
out–of–state contracts, if the business has:

(1) 250 or fewer employees; or

(2) average annual gross receipts of $10,000,000 or less averaged over its
most recently completed 3 fiscal years.

14–204.

[SecretaryThe of General Services, the Secretary of Transportation, and the
each] BOARDChancellor of the University System of Maryland shall adopt regulations to
establish procedures for:

(1) compiling and maintaining a comprehensive bidder’s list of small
businesses;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 653

(2) locating potential sources for various construction related services,
supplies, and services and affirmatively seeking to locate potential minority business
enterprise sources for those construction related services, supplies, and services;

(3) helping small businesses to comply with the procedures for bidding on
procurement contracts;

(4) examining requests for construction related services, supplies, and
services to determine when an invitation for bids may be designated for the Small Business
Preference Program;

(5) bidding for a procurement contract designated for a small business
preference;

(6) simplifying procurement specifications and terms, to increase the
opportunities for small business participation;

(7) investigating the responsibility of bidders on small business
preferences; and

(8) explaining to a small business the reason for which its bid for a small
business preference was rejected.

14–205.

[SecretariesThe Department of Commerce shall help the of General Services and
Maryland] BOARDTransportation and the Chancellor of the University System of in
establishing procedures to carry out § 14–204(1) and (2) of this subtitle.

14–206.

(a) In this section, “percentage preference” means the percent of the lowest
responsive bid submitted by a responsible bidder who is not a small business by which a
responsive bid by a small business may:

(1) exceed the lowest bid; and

(2) be awarded a procurement contract under this subtitle.

[the(b) Subject to the approval of the Board, Secretary of General Services, the
Maryland]Secretary of Transportation, and the Chancellor of the University System of
each UNIT:

(1) shall establish a percentage preference, not to exceed 8%, for each
industry as follows:

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 653 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) a base percentage preference not to exceed 5% for all small
businesses; and

(ii) two additional preferences to the percentage preference set forth
in item (i) of this paragraph as follows:

1. 2% for veteran–owned small businesses; and

2. 3% for disabled veteran–owned small businesses; and

(2) may vary the percentage preference determined in item (1)(i) of this
subsection among industries to account for their particular characteristics.

14–207.

[Secretary(a) The of General Services, the Secretary of Transportation, and the
each] ~~BOARD~~Chancellor of the University System of Maryland may designate, forUNIT
the Small Business Preference Program, procurement of certain supplies, services, or
construction related services that have been requested through or with the approval of the
[Secretary Chancellor]or UNIT.HEAD OF THE

(b) The invitation for bids on a procurement that has been designated for a small
business preference shall be sent to small businesses and regular bidders to establish a
reasonable price range commensurate with current market conditions.

[The(c) Secretary of General Services, the Secretary of Transportation, or the
Maryland] AChancellor of the University System of shall award a procurementUNIT
contract designated for a small business preference to the small business that:

(1) is a responsible bidder; and

(2) submits the lowest responsive bid from a small business if the
difference between that bid and the lowest responsive bid submitted by a responsible bidder
who is not a small business does not exceed the percentage preference established under §
14–206 of this subtitle.

~~14–502.~~

~~(c)~~ ~~To~~ ~~the~~ ~~extent~~ ~~practicable,~~ ~~a~~ ~~unit~~ ~~shall~~ ~~structure~~ ~~its~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~procedures~~ ~~to~~
~~achieve~~ ~~a~~ ~~minimum~~ ~~of~~ ~~15%~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~unit’s~~ ~~total~~ ~~dollar~~ ~~value~~ ~~of~~ ~~goods,~~ ~~supplies,~~ ~~services,~~
~~maintenance,~~ ~~construction,~~ ~~construction–related~~ ~~services,~~ ~~and~~ ~~architectural~~ ~~and~~
~~engineering~~ ~~service~~ ~~contracts~~ ~~to~~ ~~be~~ ~~made~~ ~~directly~~ ~~to~~ ~~small~~ ~~businesses.~~

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 653

~~[apply~~~~(e)~~ ~~A~~ ~~unit~~ ~~may~~ ~~toward~~ ~~the~~ ~~unit’s~~ ~~overall~~ ~~annual~~ ~~Small~~ ~~Business~~ ~~Reserve~~
~~payment~~ ~~achievement~~ ~~only~~ ~~those~~ ~~payments~~ ~~resulting~~ ~~from~~ ~~a~~ ~~procurement~~ ~~that~~ ~~is~~
~~procurement]~~ ~~MAY:~~~~designated~~ ~~a~~ ~~Small~~ ~~Business~~ ~~Reserve~~

~~(1)~~ ~~(C)~~~~ACHIEVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OBJECTIVES~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~
~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~BY~~ ~~AWARDING~~ ~~CONTRACTS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESSES~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~BOTH~~
~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESS~~~~THE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~
~~RESERVE~~ ~~PROGRAM;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~APPLY~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~AWARDED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~TOWARD~~
~~(C)~~ ~~SECTION,~~~~THE~~ ~~OBJECTIVE~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~EVEN~~ ~~IF~~
~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~PREFERENCE~~~~THE~~ ~~PROCUREMENT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~DESIGNATED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SMALL~~ ~~BUSINESS~~ ~~RESERVE~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~~~OR~~ ~~THE~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 5 –