PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 373

Chapter 373

(House Bill 838)

AN ACT concerning

Prince George’s County Family Child Care Home Expansion Grant Program –
Establishment

PG 505–24

FOR the purpose of establishing the Prince George’s County Family Child Care Home
Expansion Grant Program in the ~~Division~~ ~~of~~ ~~Early~~ ~~Childhood~~ ~~Education~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~
~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Education~~ Prince George’s County public school system; ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~
~~Governor~~ ~~to~~ ~~include~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~annual~~ ~~budget~~ ~~bill~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~appropriation~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Program;~~
and generally relating to the Prince George’s County Family Child Care Home
Expansion Grant Program.

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 4–142
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section ~~9.5–101(a),~~ ~~(d),~~ ~~and~~ ~~(e)~~ ~~and~~ 9.5–301(a), (b), (d), (e), (f), and (g)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Education~~
~~Section~~ ~~9.5–117~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2022~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

~~9.5–101.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~In~~ ~~this~~ ~~title~~ ~~the~~ ~~following~~ ~~words~~ ~~have~~ ~~the~~ ~~meanings~~ ~~indicated.~~

~~(d)~~ ~~“Family~~ ~~child~~ ~~care~~ ~~home”~~ ~~has~~ ~~the~~ ~~meaning~~ ~~stated~~ ~~in~~ ~~§~~ ~~9.5–301~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~title.~~

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 373 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(e)~~ ~~“Large~~ ~~family~~ ~~child~~ ~~care~~ ~~home”~~ ~~has~~ ~~the~~ ~~meaning~~ ~~stated~~ ~~in~~ ~~§~~ ~~9.5–301~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~
~~title.~~

~~9.5–117.~~ 4–142.

(A) THIS PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.SECTION APPLIES ONLY IN

(B) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

~~(2)~~ ~~“DIVISION”~~ ~~DIVISION~~ ~~EARLY~~ ~~CHILDHOOD~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~DEVELOPMENT~~ ~~DEPARTMENT.~~~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~(3)~~ (2) “FAMILY PROVIDER”CHILD CARE HAS THE MEANING
§ 9.5–301 ARTICLE.STATED IN OF THIS ~~TITLE~~

~~(4)~~ (3) “PROGRAM” PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTYMEANS THE
FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME EXPANSION GRANT PROGRAM.

(C) (1) THERE PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY FAMILY CHILD CAREIS A
HOME EXPANSION GRANT PROGRAM.

(2) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO INCREASE THE NUMBER
PROVIDERS,OF REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE
HOMES, LOW–INCOMEAND REGISTERED LARGE FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES IN
PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.COMMUNITIES IN

(3) THE ~~DIVISION~~ PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOL
PROGRAM.SYSTEM SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) (1) TO PROGRAM, ~~DIVISION~~CARRY OUT THE THE LOCAL SCHOOL
~~PRINCE~~SYSTEM SHALL AWARD GRANTS TO NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS IN
~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~ THE COUNTY TO PROVIDE TRAINING AND FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE TO INDIVIDUALS INTENDING TO BECOME FAMILY CHILD CARE
PROVIDERS THAT OPERATE FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES AND LARGE FAMILY CHILD
LOW–INCOME COMMUNITIES.CARE HOMES IN

(2) TO SECTION,BE ELIGIBLE FOR A GRANT UNDER THIS AN
APPLICANT SHALL DEMONSTRATE IN AN APPLICATION PROCESS DEVELOPED BY
~~DIVISION~~ APPLICANT:THE LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM THAT THE

(I) IS A NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION WITH EXPERIENCE IN
INDIVIDUALS,PROVIDING CHILD CARE SUPPORT SERVICES TO WHICH INCLUDES

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 373

OFFERING TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO BECOME A REGISTERED
PROVIDER;FAMILY CHILD CARE AND

(II) WILL PROVIDE CHILD CARE SUPPORT SERVICES TO
WHO:INDIVIDUALS

1. INTEND ON BECOMING REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD
CARE PROVIDERS THAT WILL OPERATE REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES OR
HOMES;REGISTERED LARGE FAMILY CHILD CARE

2. LIVE LOW–INCOME ~~PRINCE~~IN A COMMUNITY IN
~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~ COUNTY, ~~DIVISION~~THE AS DETERMINED BY THE LOCAL SCHOOL
SYSTEM;

3. HAVE A GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME THAT DOES NOT
50% SIZE;EXCEED OF THE STATEWIDE MEDIAN INCOME FOR A HOUSEHOLD OF LIKE
AND

4. OWN OR RENT AS THEIR PRIMARY RESIDENCE THE
DWELLING THAT WILL BE USED AS THE FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME OR LARGE
HOME.FAMILY CHILD CARE

(E) A GRANT AWARDED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY BE USED TO OFFER
(D)(2)(II)SERVICES TO INDIVIDUALS DESCRIBED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
BY:SECTION

(1) PROVIDING MULTILINGUAL OUTREACH AND TRANSLATION
SERVICES TO RECRUIT AND TRAIN INDIVIDUALS TO BECOME REGISTERED FAMILY
PROVIDERS;CHILD CARE

(2) PROVIDING START–UPTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ASSISTANCE
DEPARTMENT’SFOR RECRUITED INDIVIDUALS AS THEY NAVIGATE THE PROCESS TO
PROVIDER,BECOME A REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE WHICH INCLUDES
ASSISTANCE IN MEETING BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS AND INSPECTION
EXPENSES TO ESTABLISH REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES AND
HOMES;REGISTERED LARGE FAMILY CHILD CARE

(3) ASSISTING NEWLY REGISTERED AND ESTABLISHED FAMILY CHILD
CARE PROVIDERS THROUGH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ACHIEVE QUALITY
BENCHMARKS; AND

(4) ASSISTING INDIVIDUALS WITH OBTAINING BACKGROUND CHECKS
PROVIDERS.TO BECOME REGISTERED FAMILY CHILD CARE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 373 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(F)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2026~~ ~~THEREAFTER,~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~
~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~
~~$500,000~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

9.5–301.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Child care provider” means the adult who has primary responsibility for the
operation of a family child care home or a large family child care home.

(d) “Family child care” means the care given to a child under the age of 13 years
or to any developmentally disabled person under the age of 21 years, in place of parental
care for less than 24 hours a day, in a residence other than the child’s residence, for which
the child care provider is paid.

(e) “Family child care home” means a residence in which family child care is
provided for up to eight children.

(f) “Family child care provider” means an individual who cares for children in a
registered family child care home or a registered large family child care home.

(g) “Large family child care home” means a residence in which family child care
is provided for at least nine children, but not more than 12 children.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 4 –