PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 446

Chapter 446

(House Bill 840)

AN ACT concerning

Vehicle Laws – Annual Vehicle Shows – Motor and Trailer Homes

FOR the purpose of ~~repealing~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~limitation~~ ~~on~~ ~~an~~ ~~exemption~~ ~~for~~ ~~motor~~ ~~and~~ ~~trailer~~
~~home~~ ~~dealers,~~ ~~and~~ ~~salesmen~~ ~~employed~~ ~~by~~ ~~dealers,~~ ~~from~~ ~~restrictions~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~number~~
~~of~~ ~~annual~~ ~~vehicle~~ ~~shows~~ ~~in~~ ~~which~~ ~~the~~ ~~dealers~~ ~~or~~ ~~salesmen~~ altering the number of
annual vehicle shows in which motor and trailer home dealers, and salesmen
employed by dealers, may participate; and generally relating to annual motor and
trailer home shows.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 15–304(c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Transportation

15–304.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section:

EXCEPT (3) SUBSECTION,(1) ~~A~~ AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
new vehicle dealer, or a licensed vehicle salesman who is employed by the dealer, mayA
participate in 2 annual vehicle shows for each dealer location.

(2) A display or exhibit of vehicles provided by a vehicle manufacturer is
not a vehicle show under this section if buyers’ orders are not executed and deposits are not
accepted.

~~[(i)~~(3) A new vehicle dealer franchised to sell Class M motor homes or
Class G trailers, or a licensed salesman who is employed by the dealer, may participate in
3~~more~~ ~~than~~ ~~2~~ annual vehicle shows, ~~if~~ ~~the~~ ~~shows~~ ~~are~~ ~~limited~~ ~~to~~ ~~Class~~ ~~M~~ ~~motor~~ ~~homes~~ ~~or~~
~~Class~~ ~~G~~ ~~trailers.~~

~~(ii)]~~ ~~CLASS~~ ~~M~~A new vehicle dealer franchised to sell motorcycles,
~~HOMES,~~ ~~CLASS~~ ~~G~~ ~~TRAILERS,~~ or a licensed salesman who is employed by the~~MOTOR~~ ~~OR~~
dealer, may participate in more than 2 annual vehicle shows.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 446 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 2 –