PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 777

Chapter 777

(House Bill 986)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Medical Assistance Program – Coverage for the Treatment of
Obesity – Required Study

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Health to study the impact of
requiring the Maryland Medical Assistance Program to provide comprehensive
coverage for the treatment of obesity; and generally relating to a study of coverage
for the treatment of obesity. ~~requiring,~~ ~~beginning~~ ~~on~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~date,~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~Medical~~ ~~Assistance~~ ~~Program~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~comprehensive~~ ~~coverage~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~treatment~~ ~~of~~
~~obesity;~~ ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Health~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~notice~~ ~~to~~ ~~Program~~
~~recipients~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~coverage~~ ~~requirements;~~ ~~and~~ ~~generally~~ ~~relating~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~Medical~~ ~~Assistance~~ ~~Program~~ ~~and~~ ~~coverage~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~treatment~~ ~~of~~ ~~obesity.~~

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~without~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Health~~ ~~–~~ ~~General~~
~~Section~~ ~~15–103(a)(1)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2023~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume)~~

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Health~~ ~~–~~ ~~General~~
~~Section~~ ~~15–103(a)(2)(xxi)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(xxii)~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2023~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume)~~
~~(As~~ ~~enacted~~ ~~by~~ ~~Chapters~~ ~~504~~ ~~and~~ ~~505~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Acts~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~ ~~Assembly~~ ~~of~~ ~~2022)~~

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Health~~ ~~–~~ ~~General~~
~~Section~~ ~~15–103(a)(2)(xxiii)~~ ~~and~~ ~~15–155~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2023~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume)~~

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That:

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Comprehensive coverage for the treatment of obesity” includes
coverage for intensive behavioral therapy, bariatric surgery, and FDA–approved
antiobesity medication.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 777 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) “FDA–approved antiobesity medication” means any medication
approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration with an indication for chronic
weight management in patients with obesity.

(b) The Maryland Department of Health shall study the impact of requiring the
Maryland Medical Assistance Program to provide comprehensive coverage for the
treatment of obesity.

(c) In conducting the study, the Department shall:

(1) identify and compare the coverage for the treatment of obesity under
medical assistance programs and other public health programs in other states; and

(2) examine and estimate any potential savings that may result from
requiring comprehensive coverage for the treatment of obesity.

(d) On or before December 31, 2024, the Maryland Department of Health shall
report its findings to the House Health and Government Operations Committee and the
Senate Finance Committee, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article.

~~SECTION~~ ~~1.~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~ENACTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GENERAL~~ ~~ASSEMBLY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~
~~That~~ ~~the~~ ~~Laws~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~read~~ ~~as~~ ~~follows:~~

~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Health~~ ~~–~~ ~~General~~

~~15–103.~~

~~(a)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~The~~ ~~Secretary~~ ~~shall~~ ~~administer~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Medical~~ ~~Assistance~~
~~Program.~~

~~(2)~~ ~~The~~ ~~Program:~~

~~(xxi)~~ ~~Beginning~~ ~~on~~ ~~January~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~provide~~ ~~gender–affirming~~
~~[and]~~~~treatment~~ ~~in~~ ~~accordance~~ ~~with~~ ~~§~~ ~~15–151~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subtitle;~~

~~(xxii)~~ ~~Beginning~~ ~~on~~ ~~July~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~provide,~~ ~~subject~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~
~~limitations~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~budget,~~ ~~and~~ ~~as~~ ~~permitted~~ ~~by~~ ~~federal~~ ~~law,~~ ~~coverage~~ ~~for~~ ~~biomarker~~
~~Article;~~~~testing~~ ~~in~~ ~~accordance~~ ~~with~~ ~~§~~ ~~15–859~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Insurance~~ ~~AND~~

~~(XXIII)~~ ~~BEGINNING~~ ~~JULY~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025,~~~~ON~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROVIDE~~
~~COMPREHENSIVE~~ ~~COVERAGE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TREATMENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OBESITY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~
~~§~~ ~~15–155~~ ~~SUBTITLE.~~~~WITH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~15–155.~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 777

~~(A)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~WORDS~~ ~~HAVE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEANINGS~~
~~INDICATED.~~

~~(2)~~ ~~“COMPREHENSIVE~~ ~~OBESITY”~~~~COVERAGE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TREATMENT~~ ~~OF~~
~~THERAPY,~~ ~~SURGERY,~~~~INCLUDES~~ ~~COVERAGE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~INTENSIVE~~ ~~BEHAVIORAL~~ ~~BARIATRIC~~
~~FDA–APPROVED~~ ~~MEDICATION.~~~~AND~~ ~~ANTIOBESITY~~

~~(3)~~ ~~“FDA–APPROVED~~ ~~MEDICATION”~~~~ANTIOBESITY~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~ANY~~
~~FOOD~~ ~~DRUG~~ ~~ADMINISTRATION~~~~MEDICATION~~ ~~APPROVED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~AND~~ ~~WITH~~
~~OBESITY.~~~~AN~~ ~~INDICATION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~CHRONIC~~ ~~WEIGHT~~ ~~MANAGEMENT~~ ~~IN~~ ~~PATIENTS~~ ~~WITH~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~COMPREHENSIVE~~ ~~COVERAGE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~
~~OBESITY.~~~~TREATMENT~~ ~~OF~~

~~(C)~~ ~~COVERAGE~~ ~~FDA–APPROVED~~~~CRITERIA~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ANTIOBESITY~~
~~MEDICATIONS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~BE~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~RESTRICTIVE~~
~~FDA–APPROVED~~ ~~MEDICATION’S~~~~THAN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANTIOBESITY~~ ~~INDICATIONS~~ ~~FOR~~
~~TREATMENT.~~

~~(D)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~UNDERTAKE~~ ~~UTILIZATION~~ ~~MANAGEMENT~~ ~~TO~~
~~DETERMINE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~NECESSITY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~APPROPRIATENESS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~TREATMENT~~ ~~OF~~
~~OBESITY~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~IF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DETERMINATIONS~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~MADE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SAME~~
~~MANNER~~ ~~AS~~ ~~DETERMINATIONS~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~MADE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TREATMENT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~
~~ILLNESS,~~ ~~CONDITION,~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~~~OR~~ ~~DISORDER~~ ~~COVERED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~

~~(E)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~SHALL~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~NOTICE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~RECIPIENTS~~
~~SECTION.~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COVERAGE~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~

~~SECTION~~ ~~2.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That,~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~before~~ ~~June~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025,~~
~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Health~~ ~~shall~~ ~~provide~~ ~~notice~~ ~~to~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Medical~~ ~~Assistance~~
~~Program~~ ~~recipients~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~coverage~~ ~~required~~ ~~by~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act~~ ~~in~~ ~~writing,~~ ~~and~~ ~~prominently~~
~~positioned~~ ~~in~~ ~~any~~ ~~literature~~ ~~or~~ ~~correspondence~~ ~~sent~~ ~~to~~ ~~Program~~ ~~recipients~~ ~~about~~ ~~coverage~~
~~available~~ ~~under~~ ~~the~~ ~~Program~~ ~~in~~ ~~calendar~~ ~~year~~ ~~2025.~~

SECTION ~~3.~~ 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 3 –