PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 670

Chapter 670

(House Bill 966)

AN ACT concerning

Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System – Reemployment as Sheriff

FOR the purpose of requiring the Board of Trustees for the State Retirement and Pension
System to suspend the retirement benefit of a retiree of the Law Enforcement
Officers’ Pension System who is elected as a sheriff within a certain period of time
after the date of retirement; providing for the reinstatement of a benefit; providing
that a suspension of a benefit does not affect survivor benefits; and generally relating
to reemployment of retirees of the Law Enforcement Officers’ Pension System.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 26–403
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Personnel and Pensions

26–403.

[subsection (f)] (F) (G)(a) Except as provided in of thisSUBSECTIONS AND
section, a retiree who is receiving a service retirement allowance may accept employment
with a participating employer on a permanent, temporary, or contractual basis, without
any reduction in retirement allowance.

(b) A reemployed retiree who is receiving a service retirement allowance may not
receive creditable service or eligibility service during the period of reemployment.

(c) The retiree’s compensation during the period of reemployment may not be
subject to the employer pickup provisions of § 21–303 of this article or any reduction or
deduction as a member contribution for pension or retirement purposes.

(d) The State Retirement Agency shall institute appropriate reporting procedures
with the affected payroll systems to ensure compliance with this section.

(e) (1) Immediately on the employment of any retiree, a participating
employer shall notify the State Retirement Agency of the type of employment and the
anticipated earnings of the retiree.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 670 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) At least once each year, in a format specified by the State Retirement
Agency, each participating employer shall provide the State Retirement Agency with a list
of all employees included on any payroll of the employer, the Social Security numbers of
the employees, and their earnings for that year.

(f) An individual who is receiving a service retirement allowance under this title
may not be employed within 45 days of the date the individual retired, on a permanent,
temporary, or contractual basis, by:

(1) the State or other participating employer; or

(2) a withdrawn participating governmental unit, if the retiree was an
employee of the withdrawn participating governmental unit while the withdrawn
governmental unit was a participating employer.

(G) (1) THIS SECTION APPLIES TO A RETIREE WHO IS ELECTED AS A
~~5~~ 1 RETIREE’S RETIREMENT.SHERIFF LESS THAN ~~YEARS~~ YEAR AFTER THE DATE OF

(2) THE BOARD TRUSTEES SHALL, NOTICE,OF AFTER GIVING
RETIREE’STEMPORARILY SUSPEND THE ALLOWANCE AS OF THE DATE THE RETIREE
SHERIFF.BEGINS SERVING AS A

(3) (I) ON RECEIVING SATISFACTORY DOCUMENTATION THAT THE
SHERIFF, BOARD TRUSTEESINDIVIDUAL IS NO LONGER SERVING AS A THE OF
RETIREE’SSHALL REINSTATE THE ALLOWANCE WITH ACCUMULATED
COST–OF–LIVING ADJUSTMENTS FROM THE DATE THE ALLOWANCE WAS
SUSPENDED.TEMPORARILY

(II) THE RETIREE’S ALLOWANCE WILL BE REINSTATED ON THE
FIRST DAY OF THE MONTH FOLLOWING THE MONTH IN WHICH THE RETIREE CEASED
SHERIFF.SERVING AS A

(4) IF A RETIREE WHOSE ALLOWANCE IS TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED
SHERIFF,DIES WHILE SERVING AS A SURVIVORSHIP BENEFITS SELECTED BY THE
TO:MEMBER AT THE TIME OF RETIREMENT SHALL BE PAID

(I) CHILD, §THE SURVIVING SPOUSE OR IN ACCORDANCE WITH
26–402 SUBTITLE;OF THIS OR

(II) CHILD,IF THERE IS NO SURVIVING SPOUSE OR THE
§ 21–403 ARTICLE.DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 670

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall be construed to
apply only prospectively and may not be applied or interpreted to have any effect on or
application to any individual who retires before the effective date of this Act.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 3 –