PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 714

Chapter 714

(House Bill 947)

AN ACT concerning

Civil Actions – Public Nuisances – Firearm Industry Members
(Gun Industry Accountability Act of 2024)

FOR the purpose of prohibiting certain firearm industry members from knowingly creating,
maintaining, or contributing to harm to the public through the sale, manufacture,
importation, or marketing of a firearm–related product under certain circumstances;
requiring a firearm industry member to establish and implement certain reasonable
controls regarding the sale, manufacture, importation, distribution, marketing,
possession, and use of certain firearm–related products; establishing that a violation
of this Act is a public nuisance; authorizing the Attorney General ~~or~~ ~~certain~~ ~~persons,~~
a county attorney, or the Baltimore City Solicitor to bring an action against a firearm
industry member for violations under this Act; requiring that the Attorney General
study the legality and feasibility of a certain statutory requirement; and generally
relating to civil actions against firearm industry members.

BY adding to
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 3–2301 through 3–2304 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 23. Civil
Actions for Public Nuisance Against Firearm Industry Members”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

SUBTITLE 23. CIVIL ACTIONS PUBLIC NUISANCE AGAINST FIREARMFOR
INDUSTRY MEMBERS.

3–2301.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) (1) “FIREARM” § 5–101 PUBLICHAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
SAFETY ARTICLE.

(2) “FIREARM” §INCLUDES AN ANTIQUE FIREARM AS DEFINED IN
4–201 CRIMINAL LAW ARTICLE.OF THE
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 714 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(C)~~ ~~“FIREARM~~ ~~ACCESSORY”~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ATTACHMENT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~DEVICE~~ ~~DESIGNED~~
~~INTO,~~ ~~ONTO,~~~~OR~~ ~~ADAPTED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~BE~~ ~~INSERTED~~ ~~AFFIXED~~ ~~OR~~ ~~USED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~CONJUNCTION~~
~~FIREARM.~~~~WITH~~ ~~A~~

~~(D)~~ (C) “FIREARM MEMBER”INDUSTRY MEANS A PERSON ENGAGED IN
SALE, MANUFACTURE, DISTRIBUTION, IMPORTATION,THE OR MARKETING OF A
FIREARM–RELATED PRODUCT.

~~(E)~~ (D) “FIREARM–RELATED PRODUCT” FIREARM,MEANS A
AMMUNITION, FIREARM,A COMPONENT OR PART OF A OR A FIREARM ACCESSORY
IS:THAT

(1) SOLD, MANUFACTURED, DISTRIBUTED, OR MARKETED IN THE
STATE; OR

(2) INTENDED SOLD, MANUFACTURED, DISTRIBUTED,TO BE OR
STATE;MARKETED IN THE ~~OR~~

~~(3)~~ ~~POSSESSED~~ ~~STATE,~~~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IF~~ ~~IT~~ ~~WAS~~ ~~REASONABLY~~ ~~FORESEEABLE~~
~~STATE.~~~~THAT~~ ~~POSSESSION~~ ~~WOULD~~ ~~OCCUR~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~(F)~~ (E) “FIREARM TRAFFICKER” ACQUIRES,MEANS A PERSON WHO
TRANSFERS, OR ATTEMPTS TO ACQUIRE OR TRANSFER A FIREARM FOR THE
STATEPURPOSE OF SELLING OR DISPOSING OF THE FIREARM IN VIOLATION OF OR
LAW.FEDERAL

~~(G)~~ (F) “REASONABLE CONTROLS” MEANS POLICIES THAT ARE
DESIGNED:

(1) TO PREVENT THE SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF A
FIREARM–RELATED TO:PRODUCT

(I) A PURCHASER;STRAW

(II) A TRAFFICKER;FIREARM

(III) A PERSON PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSING A FIREARM
STATE LAW;UNDER OR FEDERAL AND

(IV) A PERSON WHO THE FIREARM INDUSTRY MEMBER HAS
FIREARM–RELATEDREASONABLE CAUSE TO BELIEVE INTENDS TO USE THE
PRODUCT:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 714

1. TO CRIME;COMMIT A OR

2. TO CAUSE HARM TO THE PERSON OR ANOTHER
PERSON;

(2) TO FIREARM–RELATEDPREVENT THE LOSS OR THEFT OF A
MEMBER;PRODUCT FROM A FIREARM INDUSTRY AND

(3) TO ENSURE THAT THE FIREARM INDUSTRY MEMBER COMPLIES
STATEWITH ALL PROVISIONS OF AND FEDERAL LAW AND DOES NOT OTHERWISE
SALE, MANUFACTURE, ALTERATION, IMPORTATION,PROMOTE THE UNLAWFUL
MARKETING, POSSESSION, FIREARM–RELATED PRODUCT.OR USE OF A

~~(H)~~ (G) “STRAW PURCHASER” MEANS A PERSON WHO ENGAGES OR
§ 5–101ATTEMPTS TO ENGAGE IN A STRAW PURCHASE AS DEFINED IN OF THE
PUBLIC SAFETY ARTICLE.

3–2302.

(A) A CREATE,FIREARM INDUSTRY MEMBER MAY NOT KNOWINGLY
MAINTAIN, SALE,OR CONTRIBUTE TO HARM TO THE PUBLIC THROUGH THE
MANUFACTURE, DISTRIBUTION, IMPORTATION, OR MARKETING OF A
FIREARM–RELATED IS:PRODUCT BY ENGAGING IN CONDUCT THAT

(1) UNLAWFUL; OR

(2) UNREASONABLE CIRCUMSTANCES.UNDER THE TOTALITY OF THE

(B) A FIREARM INDUSTRY MEMBER SHALL ESTABLISH AND IMPLEMENT
SALE, MANUFACTURE, DISTRIBUTION,REASONABLE CONTROLS REGARDING THE
IMPORTATION, MARKETING, POSSESSION, AND USE OF THE FIREARM INDUSTRY
MEMBER’S FIREARM–RELATED PRODUCTS.

(C) A NUISANCE.VIOLATION OF THIS SECTION IS A PUBLIC

3–2303.

(A) (1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,TO PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ATTORNEY, BALTIMORE CITY SOLICITORA COUNTY OR THE
MAY BRING AN ACTION AGAINST A FIREARM INDUSTRY MEMBER FOR A PUBLIC
§ 3–2302 SUBTITLE.NUISANCE CAUSED BY A VIOLATION OF OF THIS

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 714 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) IN SUBSECTION,AN ACTION BROUGHT UNDER THIS THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ATTORNEY, BALTIMORE CITY SOLICITORCOUNTY OR MAY
SEEK:

(I) INJUNCTIVE RELIEF;

(II) RESTITUTION;

(III) COMPENSATORY DAMAGES;AND PUNITIVE

(IV) REASONABLE ATTORNEY’S COSTS;FEES AND AND

(V) ANY RELIEF.OTHER APPROPRIATE

~~(B)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~BRING~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACTION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~DAMAGES~~ ~~AGAINST~~ ~~A~~
~~FIREARM~~ ~~INDUSTRY~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~INJURY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~LOSS~~ ~~SUSTAINED~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~RESULT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~
~~§~~ ~~3–2302~~ ~~SUBTITLE.~~~~VIOLATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~BRINGS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACTION~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~MAY~~
~~AWARDED:~~~~SEEK~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~INJUNCTIVE~~ ~~RELIEF;~~

~~(II)~~ ~~COMPENSATORY~~ ~~DAMAGES;~~

~~(III)~~ ~~PUNITIVE~~ ~~DAMAGES;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~REASONABLE~~ ~~ATTORNEY’S~~ ~~COSTS.~~~~FEES~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~BRINGS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACTION~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~
~~SHALL,~~ ~~5~~ ~~COMPLAINT:~~~~WITHIN~~ ~~DAYS~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~FILING~~ ~~THE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~NOTIFY~~ ~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~~~THE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~HAS~~
~~ACTION;~~~~BROUGHT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~~~THE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~A~~ ~~COPY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMPLAINT~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~DOCUMENTS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PLEADINGS~~ ~~FILED~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMPLAINT.~~

~~(C)~~ (B) A PARTY SEEKING RELIEF UNDER THIS SECTION IS NOT
REQUIRED TO PROVE THAT A FIREARM INDUSTRY MEMBER ACTED WITH THE INTENT
SUBTITLE.TO VIOLATE THIS

3–2304.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 714

NOTHING AFFECT:IN THIS SUBTITLE MAY BE CONSTRUED TO

(1) ANY ACTION;OTHER COMMON LAW OR STATUTORY CAUSE OF OR

(2) ANY OTHER OBLIGATION OR RESTRICTION IMPOSED ON A
STATE LAW.FIREARM INDUSTRY MEMBER UNDER OR FEDERAL

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, if any provision of this Act or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid for any reason in a
court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity does not affect other provisions or any other
application of this Act that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application,
and for this purpose the provisions of this Act are declared severable.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) The Attorney General, in consultation with the Department of State Police,
shall study and make recommendations regarding the legality and feasibility of a statutory
requirement that would compel licensed firearm dealers within the State to provide records
of firearm trace requests received from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives to the Attorney General.

(b) The Attorney General shall provide staff for the study.

(c) On or before June 30, 2025, the Attorney General shall report to the General
Assembly, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, on its
recommendations and findings.

SECTION ~~3.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
June 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 5 –