PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1024

Chapter 1024

(House Bill 920)

AN ACT concerning

Washington County – Alcoholic Beverages – Multi–Use Sports and Events
Facility Beer, Wine, and Liquor License

FOR the purpose of altering the stadium beer and wine license in Washington County to
be a multi–use sports and events facility beer, wine, and liquor license; authorizing
the license holder to sell beer, wine, and liquor for on–premises consumption in the
multi–use sports and events facility; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages in
Washington County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 31–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 31–1005
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

31–102.

This title applies only in Washington County.

31–1005.

[stadium] MULTI–USE(a) In this section, “premises” includes the entire SPORTS
[and lots].facility the stadium parkingAND EVENTS

[stadium] MULTI–USE beer,(b) There is a SPORTS AND EVENTS FACILITY
WINE, [wine]and license.LIQUOR

(c) The Board may issue the license to the owner of a professional baseball team
franchise that may be in any form of business organization, including partnership,

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1024 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

MULTI–USEcorporation, and limited liability company THAT WILL OPERATE AS A
FACILITY.SPORTS AND EVENTS

[(1)] beer, WINE, [wine:(d) The license authorizes the license holder to sell and

(i)] for on–premises consumption to individuals present atLIQUOR
[stadium;an event held in the and

(ii) in plastic, Styrofoam, or paper containers.

(2) The written approval of the Board is required before beer and wine may
be sold, served, or consumed:

(i) on a parking lot of the stadium; or

(ii) during an event other than a baseball game in which the team of
playing] MULTI–USEthe license holder is FACILITY.SPORTS AND EVENTS

[may(e) The license holder sell beer and wine from the time the stadium opens
ends] TO:for the event until the event SHALL REQUIRE ALL EMPLOYEES

(1) PROGRAM;COMPLETE AN ALCOHOL AWARENESS TRAINING AND

(2) CERTIFICATE.OBTAIN A CROWD CONTROL TRAINING

(f) The license holder may not allow an individual to carry alcoholic beverages
onto or from the licensed premises.

[(1)] [$2,000] $2,500.(g) The annual license fee is

[(2) $250.]The fee for a Sunday permit is

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –