PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

Chapter 171

(House Bill 903)

AN ACT concerning

Education – Access to Attorneys, Advocates, and Consultants for Special
Education Program and Fund – Established

FOR the purpose of requiring certain information to be provided to the parents of a child
with a disability under certain circumstances; requiring certain public agencies to
compile, collect, and report certain information; establishing the Access to Attorneys,
Advocates, and Consultants for Special Education Program; establishing the Access
to Attorneys, Advocates, and Consultants for Special Education Fund; requiring
interest earnings of the Fund to be credited to the Fund; and generally relating to
the Access to Attorneys, Advocates, and Consultants for Special Education Program
and Fund.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 8–405(b) and (e) and 8–413(b) and (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section 8–413(a)(1), (5), and (6) and (l)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 8–413(m) and 8–413.1
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)189. and 190.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)191.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

8–405.

(b) (1) When a team of qualified professionals and the parents meet for the
purpose of discussing the identification, evaluation, educational program, or the provision
of a free appropriate public education of a child with a disability:

(i) The parents of the child shall be afforded the opportunity to
participate and shall be provided reasonable notice in advance of the meeting; and

(ii) Reasonable notice shall be at least 10 calendar days in advance
of the meeting, unless an expedited meeting is being conducted to:

1. Address disciplinary issues;

2. Determine the placement of the child with a disability not
currently receiving educational services; or

3. Meet other urgent needs of a child with a disability to
ensure the provision of a free appropriate public education.

(2) (i) 1. At the initial evaluation meeting, the parents of the child
shall be provided:

A. In plain language, an oral and written explanation of the
parents’ rights and responsibilities in the individualized education program process and a
program procedural safeguards notice;

B. Written information that the parents may use to contact
early intervention and special education family support services staff members within the
local school system and a brief description of the services provided by the staff members;
[and]

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

C. Written information on the Special Education
Ombudsman and toll–free telephone number established under Title 6, Subtitle 5 of the
Article;State Government AND

D. WRITTEN ACCESSINFORMATION ABOUT THE TO
ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMAND FOR
§ 8–413.1 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

2. If a parent’s native language is not English, the
[and], C, Dinformation in subsubparagraph 1B of this subparagraph shall beAND
provided to the parent in the parent’s native language.

(ii) The parents may request the information provided under
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph at any subsequent meeting.

(iii) If a child who has an individualized education program
developed in another school system moves into a different local school system, that local
[and], C,school system shall provide the information required under subparagraph (i)1B
D of this paragraph at the time of the first written communication with the parentsAND
regarding the child’s individualized education program or special education services.

(iv) A local school system shall publish information that a parent
may use to contact early intervention and special education family support services staff
members within the local school system and a brief description of the services provided by
the staff members in a prominent place on the section of its website relating to special
education services.

(3) Failure to provide the information required under paragraph (2)(i)1B
[and], C, D of this subsection does not constitute grounds for a due process complaintAND
under § 8–413 of this subtitle.

(4) (i) A parent may request an independent educational evaluation at
public expense in accordance with regulations adopted by the Department if:

1. The parent disagrees with the educational evaluation of
the student that was conducted by the local school system; or

2. The parent submits to the local school system a written
request for an educational evaluation conducted by the local school system and the local
school system:

A. Does not respond to the request within 30 days as required
under subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph; or

B. Approves the request but the educational evaluation
meeting does not occur, through no fault of the parent, within:
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

I. 60 days after the date on which the request was received
by the local school system; or

II. If the State is under a state of emergency proclaimed by
the Governor, 90 days after the date on which the request was received by the local school
system.

(ii) The local school system shall provide a written response
approving or denying a request within 30 days of the date the request was made.

(iii) If the local school system approves a request, the written
response shall advise the parent of the process for arranging the evaluation at public
expense.

(iv) If the local school system denies a request, the local school system
shall file a due process complaint under § 8–413 of this subtitle within 30 days of the date
of the denial.

(5) (i) If, during an individualized education program team meeting, a
parent disagrees with the child’s individualized education program or the special education
services provided to the child, the individualized education program team shall provide the
parent with, in plain language:

1. An oral and a written explanation of the parent’s right to
request mediation in accordance with § 8–413 of this subtitle;

2. Contact information, including a telephone number that a
[and]parent may use to receive more information about the mediation process;

3. Information regarding pro bono representation and other
area;free or low–cost legal and related services available in the AND

4. WRITTEN ACCESSINFORMATION ABOUT THE TO
ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMAND FOR
§ 8–413.1 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(ii) A parent may request the information provided under
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph at any individualized education program team meeting.

(6) (i) If the native language spoken by a parent who requests
information under paragraph (5) of this subsection is spoken by more than 1% of the
student population in the local school system, the parent may request that the information
be translated into the parent’s native language.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

(ii) If a parent makes a request under subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph, the individualized education program team shall provide the parent with the
translated document within 30 days after the date of the request.

(e) (1) (i) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, and
subject to subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph, at least 5 business days before a
scheduled meeting of the individualized education program team or other multidisciplinary
education team for any purpose for a child with a disability, appropriate school personnel
[an]:shall provide the parents of the child with

1. AN accessible copy of each assessment, report, data chart,
draft individualized education program, or other document that either team plans to
meeting;discuss at the

2. NOTIFICATION OF THE RIGHT OF THE PARENT TO BE
ACCOMPANIED TO THE MEETING BY ANY INDIVIDUAL WHO HAS KNOWLEDGE OR
STUDENT;~~SPECIAL~~ EXPERTISE REGARDING THE AND

3. WRITTEN ACCESSINFORMATION ABOUT THE TO
ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMAND FOR
§ 8–413.1 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(ii) Subject to subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, an assessment,
report, data chart, or other document prepared by a school psychologist or other medical
professional that either team plans to discuss at the meeting may be provided to the parents
of the child orally and in writing prior to the meeting.

(iii) The parents of a child may notify appropriate school personnel
that they do not want to receive the documents required to be provided under subparagraph
(i) of this paragraph.

(2) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, appropriate
school personnel are not required to comply with paragraph (1) of this subsection in the
event of an extenuating circumstance.

(ii) In the event of an extenuating circumstance, appropriate school
personnel who fail to comply with paragraph (1) of this subsection shall document the
extenuating circumstance and communicate that information to the parents of the child.

8–413.

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(5) “Parent” means:

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) A child’s natural or adoptive parents, a guardian, or a person
acting as a parent of a child, such as a relative or a stepparent with whom the child lives;

(ii) A foster parent with whom a child lives if the foster parent has
been granted limited guardianship for educational decision making purposes by the court
that placed the child in foster care;

(iii) Another individual who is legally responsible for the child’s
welfare; or

(iv) A parent surrogate appointed in accordance with § 8–412 of this
subtitle.

(6) “Public agency” means the State Department of Education, a local
school system, the Juvenile Services Education Program, or any State agency responsible
for providing education to students with disabilities, including the Maryland School for the
Blind and the Maryland School for the Deaf.

(b) (1) The parent of a child with a disability or a public agency may formally
request mediation at any time to resolve any disagreement between the parties regarding
the child’s special education services or program.

(2) If a parent files a due process complaint against a public agency
concerning the identification, evaluation, or educational placement of a student or the
provision of a free appropriate public education, any party shall be given the opportunity
to request mediation of those aspects of the decision subject to dispute.

(3) The request for mediation may not be used to deny or delay the parent’s
rights under federal law or this section.

(4) Any party to the mediation has the right to be accompanied and advised
by counsel.

(5) Mediation shall be conducted in accordance with departmental
regulations.

(6) A mediation agreement shall be in writing and is enforceable in a court
of competent jurisdiction in accordance with federal law.

(7) The Department shall make a staff member available to assist a parent
in understanding the mediation process.

(8) BEFORE BEGINS, DEPARTMENTMEDIATION THE SHALL NOTIFY A
ACCESS ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTSPARENT ABOUT THE TO AND FOR
SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM § 8–413.1 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

(c) (1) Before conducting a due process hearing in accordance with subsection
[an]:(d) of this section, the public agency shall provide the parent with

(I) AN opportunity to resolve the due process complaint at a
law;resolution session in accordance with federal AND

(II) NOTIFICATION ACCESS ATTORNEYS,ABOUT THE TO
ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAMAND FOR
§ 8–413.1 SUBTITLE.ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS

(2) A resolution session agreement shall be in writing and enforceable in a
court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with federal law.

(3) A written resolution agreement may be voided by the parties within 3
business days of execution in accordance with federal law.

(l) (1) The court may award reasonable attorney’s fees and related costs,
including expert witness fees and costs, to the parent of a child with a disability who is a
prevailing party in accordance with this subsection.

(2) Subject to paragraph (3) of this subsection, attorney’s fees may not be
awarded and related costs may not be reimbursed for services performed after the date a
written offer of settlement is made to a parent if:

(i) The settlement offer is made more than 14 days before the start
of the proceeding;

(ii) The settlement offer is not accepted within 14 days; and

(iii) The court finds that the relief finally obtained by the parent is
not more favorable to the parent than the settlement offer.

(3) An award of attorney’s fees and related costs, including expert witness
fees and costs, may be made to a parent who is the prevailing party and who was
substantially justified in rejecting a settlement offer.

(M) (1) A PUBLIC AGENCY ANNUALLY SHALL COLLECT THE FOLLOWING
~~PROGRAM,~~INFORMATION FOR EACH ~~INDIVIDUALIZED~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ MEDIATION
PROCEEDING, PROCEEDING:AND DUE PROCESS

(I) THE DISPUTE;NATURE OF THE AND

(II) THE STUDENT’S:

1. GRADE LEVEL;

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

2. SPECIAL PLACEMENT;EDUCATION

3. DISABILITY CATEGORY;

4. RACE;

5. ETHNICITY;

6. GENDER;

7. ENGLISH STATUS;LEARNER AND

8. FREE STATUS.AND REDUCED PRICE MEALS

(2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL COMPILE THE INFORMATION
(1) AND,COLLECTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION ON OR BEFORE
NOVEMBER 1 YEAR, GENERAL ASSEMBLY,EACH SHALL SUBMIT A REPORT TO THE
§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE

8–413.1.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) (I) “ADVOCATE” WHO,MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL FOR
COMPENSATION, PROVIDES SUPPORT AND GUIDANCE DURING INDIVIDUALIZED
MEETINGS, PROCEEDINGS,EDUCATION PROGRAM MEDIATION OR DUE PROCESS
TO:PROCEEDINGS

1. A DISABILITY;STUDENT WITH A OR

2. THE PARENT OR GUARDIAN OF A STUDENT WITH A
DISABILITY.

(II) “ADVOCATE” INCLUDE:DOES NOT

1. AN ATTORNEY ACTING IN A LEGAL CAPACITY TO
DISABILITY;REPRESENT A STUDENT WITH A OR

2. A CONSULTANT.

~~(2)~~ (3) “CONSULTANT” MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WITH A DEGREE OR
CERTIFICATION IN A FIELD THAT IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO SPECIAL EDUCATION OR

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

RELATED SERVICES WHOSE KNOWLEDGE CAN BE HELPFUL IN DETERMINING HOW
STUDENT’STO MEET A SPECIAL EDUCATION NEEDS IN ACCORDANCE WITH FEDERAL
STATE LAW.AND

~~(3)~~ (4) “ELIGIBLE STUDENT” MEANS A STUDENT WITH A
HAS:DISABILITY WHOSE PARENT

(I) A 150%HOUSEHOLD INCOME OF NOT MORE THAN OF THE
~~MARYLAND~~ ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ INCOME GUIDELINES USED BY THE
MARYLAND VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE; AND

(II) MADE AT LEAST ONE ATTEMPT TO RESOLVE A
CHILD’SDISAGREEMENT WITH A PUBLIC AGENCY REGARDING THE SPECIAL
PROGRAM.EDUCATION SERVICES OR

~~(4)~~ (5) “FUND” ACCESS ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,MEANS THE TO
CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION FUND.AND FOR

~~(5)~~ (6) “INDIVIDUALIZED PROGRAM”EDUCATION HAS THE SAME
INDIVIDUALS DISABILITIESMEANING AS ~~PROVIDED~~ STATED IN THE FEDERAL WITH
EDUCATION ACT.

~~(6)~~ (7) “PARENT” § 8–413HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THIS
SUBTITLE.

~~(7)~~ (8) “PROGRAM” ACCESS ATTORNEYS,MEANS THE TO
ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM.AND FOR

~~(8)~~ (9) “PUBLIC AGENCY” § 8–413HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF
SUBTITLE.THIS

(B) (1) THERE ACCESS ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,IS AN TO AND
CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM.FOR

(2) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO DIRECT RESOURCES AND
LEGAL, ADVOCACY,SERVICES TO ELIGIBLE STUDENTS TO PROVIDE ACCESS TO AND
SECTION.CONSULTANT SERVICES AS REQUIRED UNDER THIS

(3) (I) THE PROGRAM SHALL BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~
VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE.

(II) THE MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~
~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE SHALL:
– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

1. ADVERTISE PROGRAM;THE

2. SEEK ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,QUALIFIED AND
CONSULTANTS INTERESTED IN BEING INCLUDED ON A REFERRAL LIST TO BE
STUDENTS;PROVIDED TO ELIGIBLE

3. COMPILE AND MAINTAIN A REFERRAL LIST OF
ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTS;QUALIFIED AND

4. ~~DEVELOP~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(III)~~~~TO~~ ~~SUBPARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~PARAGRAPH,~~ DEVELOP~~DEVELOP~~ CRITERIA TO DETERMINE THE REQUIRED
ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,QUALIFICATIONS OF AND CONSULTANTS TO PARTICIPATE
PROGRAM;IN THE

5. DEVELOP, IN CONSULTATION WITH THE
DEPARTMENT, DIRECTORS,LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM SPECIAL EDUCATION
ADVOCATES, JUDICIARY,DISABILITY RIGHTS AND REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE
STATETRAINING FOR ADVOCATES AND CONSULTANTS ON FEDERAL AND SPECIAL
PROCEDURES;EDUCATION LAW AND

6. DEVELOP AND DISTRIBUTE TO APPROPRIATE PUBLIC
AGENCIES THE WRITTEN INFORMATIONAL MATERIALS REQUIRED TO BE PROVIDED
§ 8–405 SUBTITLE;TO PARENTS UNDER OF THIS

~~5.~~ 7. ENSURE THAT PUBLIC AGENCIES PROVIDE
PROGRAM (C)NOTIFICATION OF THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION;

~~6.~~ 8. PROVIDE THE REFERRAL LIST TO ELIGIBLE
MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~STUDENTS WHO CONTACT THE
~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE;

~~7.~~ 9. COMPILE DATA IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION
(F) SECTION;OF THIS AND

~~8.~~ 10. STUDY EVALUATE:AND

A. THE PROGRAM;SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE AND

B. RESOURCES NEEDED TO INCREASE THE ACCESS OF
ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,ELIGIBLE STUDENTS TO AND CONSULTANTS IN SPECIAL
MATTERS.EDUCATION

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

~~(III)~~ ~~1.~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~
~~ATTORNEYS,~~ ~~ADVOCATES,~~~~SHALL~~ ~~DEVELOP~~ ~~TRAINING~~ ~~CRITERIA~~ ~~TO~~ ~~TRAIN~~ ~~AND~~
~~PROGRAM.~~~~CONSULTANTS~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~SEEK~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PARTICIPATE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~2.~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TRAINING~~ ~~DEVELOPED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THIS~~
~~ATTORNEYS,~~ ~~ADVOCATES,~~~~SUBPARAGRAPH~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~TEACH~~ ~~AND~~ ~~CONSULTANTS~~ ~~ABOUT~~
~~STATE~~~~ALL~~ ~~RELEVANT~~ ~~ASPECTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AND~~ ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~LAW~~ ~~RELATING~~ ~~TO~~ ~~INDIVIDUALS~~
~~SETTING.~~~~WITH~~ ~~DISABILITIES~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~SCHOOL~~

~~3.~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~
~~DIRECTORS,~~~~SHALL~~ ~~CONSULT~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~SPECIAL~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~DISABILITY~~ ~~RIGHTS~~
~~ADVOCATES,~~ ~~TRAINING.~~~~AND~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~JUDICIARY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~DEVELOPING~~ ~~THE~~

~~4.~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ATTORNEY,~~ ~~ADVOCATE,~~ ~~OR~~ ~~CONSULTANT~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~ATTORNEY,~~ ~~ADVOCATE,~~~~PARTICIPATE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNLESS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OR~~
~~TRAINING.~~~~CONSULTANT~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~COMPLETED~~ ~~THE~~

(4) (I) THE MARYLAND ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~
VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE MAY PROVIDE OR AUTHORIZE OTHER NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS TO PROVIDE TO ADVOCATES AND CONSULTANTS THE TRAINING
(3)(II)5 SUBSECTION.DEVELOPED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(II) AN ADVOCATE OR A CONSULTANT SHALL COMPLETE THE
(I)TRAINING PROVIDED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH TO QUALIFY
PROGRAM.TO PARTICIPATE IN AND RECEIVE PAYMENT UNDER THE

~~(4)~~ (5) THE PROGRAM MAY SERVE ONLY ELIGIBLE STUDENTS WHO
FOLLOWING:MEET AT LEAST ONE OF THE

(I) A MORE RESTRICTIVE OR LESS RESTRICTIVE PLACEMENT IS
BEING PROPOSED FOR THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT AND THE PARENT DISAGREES WITH
PROPOSAL;THE

(II) A REDUCTION IN INSTRUCTIONAL OR RELATED SERVICES IS
BEING PROPOSED FOR THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT AND THE PARENT DISAGREES WITH
PROPOSAL;THE

(III) THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT HAS BEEN SUSPENDED OR
10 DAYS;OTHERWISE REMOVED FROM SCHOOL FOR MORE THAN

(IV) THE SCHOOL HAS REQUESTED A DUE PROCESS HEARING
PARENT;AGAINST THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT OR

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(V) THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT HAS BEEN RESTRAINED OR
10 TIMES;PLACED IN SECLUSION MORE THAN

(VI) THE SCHOOL HAS PROPOSED TO ENROLL AN ELIGIBLE
STUDENT IN AN ALTERNATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAM AND THE PARENT DISAGREES
PROPOSAL;WITH THE OR

(VII) THE PARENT’S ENGLISHNATIVE LANGUAGE IS NOT AND
THE PARENT SEEKS ASSISTANCE WITH NAVIGATING THE SPECIAL EDUCATION
STUDENT.NEEDS OF THE ELIGIBLE

(C) ALL PUBLIC AGENCIES SHALL INCLUDE INFORMATION ABOUT THE
PROGRAM PARENT’SIN THE RIGHTS DOCUMENTS DISTRIBUTED TO FAMILIES IN THE
INDIVIDUALIZED EDUCATION PROGRAM MEETINGS AND BEFORE MEDIATION OR
§ 8–413 SUBTITLE.DUE PROCESS HEARINGS UNDER OF THIS

(D) (1) THERE ACCESS ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,IS AN TO AND
CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION FUND.FOR

(2) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE FUNDING FOR
FAMILIES OF ELIGIBLE STUDENTS WITH LIMITED FINANCIAL RESOURCES TO ACCESS
ASSISTANCE, ADVOCACY,LEGAL AND CONSULTATION SERVICES IN SPECIAL
MATTERS.EDUCATION

(3) THE ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ DEPARTMENT
FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(4) (I) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(II) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL HOLD THE
SEPARATELY, COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(5) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(I) MONEY STATEAPPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE
FUND;

(II) INTEREST EARNINGS;

(III) REIMBURSEMENTS ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,FROM AND
FEES;CONSULTANTS DUE TO RECOUPMENT OF AND

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

(IV) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED
FUND.FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE

(6) THE FUND FOR:MAY BE USED ONLY

(I) SERVICES PROVIDED TO ELIGIBLE STUDENTS BY
ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES, CONSULTANTS;AND

(II) DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION OF WRITTEN
PARENTS;INFORMATIONAL MATERIAL FOR

~~(II)~~ (III) OUTREACH ACTIVITIES;AND EDUCATION AND

~~(III)~~ (IV) ADMINISTRATIVE ~~MARYLAND~~EXPENSES OF THE
~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ DEPARTMENT MARYLAND ~~LEGAL~~AND THE
~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE.

(7) (I) THE STATE TREASURER SHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
FUND STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(II) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE
FUND.CREDITED TO THE

(8) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN
STATE BUDGET.ACCORDANCE WITH THE

(9) (I) BEGINNING 2026, GOVERNORIN FISCAL YEAR THE SHALL
~~$2,000,000~~INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF
$1,000,000 FUND.TO THE

(II) EXCLUDING EXPENDITURES FOR ADMINISTERING THE
PROGRAM, GENERAL ASSEMBLY THAT:IT IS THE INTENT OF THE

1. APPROXIMATELY 25% OF THE ANNUAL
APPROPRIATION BE USED FOR PROVIDING REPRESENTATION OF ELIGIBLE
PROCEEDINGS;STUDENTS IN DUE PROCESS HEARINGS AND COURT AND

2. APPROXIMATELY 75% OF THE ANNUAL
CONSULTATION, REPRESENTATION,APPROPRIATION BE USED FOR PROVIDING OR
STUDENTS.ADVOCACY OF ELIGIBLE

(10) MONEY FUND PROGRAMEXPENDED FROM THE FOR THE IS
SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF FUNDING THAT

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

PROGRAMOTHERWISE WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR THE OR FOR ANY OTHER
STATE’S BUDGET.CIVIL LEGAL SERVICES FUNDED IN THE ANNUAL OPERATING

(E) (1) AN ELIGIBLE STUDENT WHO IS INTERESTED IN SECURING THE
ATTORNEY, ADVOCATE,SERVICES OF AN AN OR A CONSULTANT UNDER THE
PROGRAM SHALL REGISTER WITH AND PROVIDE ANY INFORMATION REQUIRED BY
MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~THE
VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE.

(2) (I) AN ATTORNEY, ADVOCATE,AN OR A CONSULTANT WHO IS
MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~INCLUDED ON THE REFERRAL LIST MAINTAINED BY THE
~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ VOLUNTEER LAWYERS
SERVICE INDIVIDUAL’S RATE, $200MAY RECEIVE THE CUSTOMARY UP TO PER
HOUR, PROGRAM.TO PROVIDE SERVICES TO THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT UNDER THE

(II) ON SERVICES,QUARTERLY SUBMISSION OF PROOF OF THE
MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~
VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE ATTORNEY, ADVOCATE,SHALL DIRECTLY PAY THE
OR CONSULTANT ON BEHALF OF THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT UP TO THE LIMIT
(3)(II) SUBSECTION.DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(III) FUNDS ATTORNEY, ADVOCATE,RECEIVED BY AN AN OR A
PROGRAM PROGRAMCONSULTANT UNDER THE DO NOT NEED TO BE REPAID TO THE
UNLESS THE ELIGIBLE STUDENT IS THE PREVAILING PARTY IN A PROCEEDING AND
STUDENT.FEES HAVE BEEN AWARDED TO THE ELIGIBLE

(3) (I) PROGRAM FIRST–COME,FUNDS SHALL BE ALLOCATED ON A
FIRST–SERVED BASIS.

(II) AN ELIGIBLE STUDENT IS LIMITED TO A LIFETIME MAXIMUM
$20,000 PROGRAM.OF OF SERVICES PROVIDED UNDER THE

(F) (1) THE MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~
~~SERVICES~~ ~~CORPORATION~~ VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE SHALL COLLECT THE
BASIS:FOLLOWING DATA ON AN ANNUAL

(I) TOTAL FUND;AMOUNT OF FUNDS DISBURSED FROM THE

(II) AMOUNT OF FUNDS DISBURSED DISAGGREGATED BY THE
OF:NUMBER

1. ELIGIBLE SERVED;STUDENTS

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 171

2. ATTORNEYS SERVICES;WHO PROVIDED

3. ADVOCATES SERVICES;WHO PROVIDED AND

4. CONSULTANTS SERVICES;WHO PROVIDED ~~AND~~

(III) THE AMOUNT OF FUNDS DISBURSED DISAGGREGATED BY
SERVICE, INCLUDING:THE TYPE OF

1. DISPUTE PROCEEDINGS,RESOLUTION INCLUDING
MEDIATION, HEARINGS, PROCEEDINGS;DUE PROCESS AND COURT AND

2. ASSISTANCE SERVICES,AND SUPPORT INCLUDING
CONSULTANCY, ADVOCACY, SERVICES;AND LEGAL CONSULTANCY AND

~~(III)~~ (IV) THE FUNDAMOUNT OF MONEY RETURNED TO THE
FEES.DUE TO RECOUPMENT OF

(2) ON OCTOBER 1, 2025, OCTOBER 1OR BEFORE AND EACH
THEREAFTER, MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~ATTORNEYS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~THE
~~CORPORATION~~ VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE SHALL COMPILE THE INFORMATION
(1)COLLECTED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION AND SUBMIT A REPORT
GENERAL ASSEMBLY, § 2–1257 STATETO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

(G) THE MARYLAND ~~VOLUNTEER~~ ~~LAWYERS~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~LEGAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~
~~CORPORATION~~ VOLUNTEER LAWYERS SERVICE MAY ADOPT POLICIES AND
SECTION.PROCEDURES TO CARRY OUT THIS

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]189. the Teacher Retention and Development Fund;

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 171 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Fund;190. the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant AND

191. ACCESS ATTORNEYS, ADVOCATES,THE TO AND
CONSULTANTS SPECIAL EDUCATION FUND.FOR

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 16 –