PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 799

Chapter 799

(House Bill 1051)

AN ACT concerning

Maternal Health – Assessments, Referrals, and Reporting
(Maryland Maternal Health Act of 2024)

FOR the purpose of establishing requirements on local health departments and certain
health care providers and facilities regarding maternal health, including
requirements regarding prenatal risk assessment forms and postpartum infant and
maternal referral forms; ~~prohibiting~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Health~~ ~~from~~
~~providing~~ ~~Medical~~ ~~Assistance~~ ~~Program~~ ~~reimbursement~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~hospital~~ ~~or~~ ~~freestanding~~
~~birthing~~ ~~center~~ ~~unless~~ ~~the~~ ~~facility~~ ~~complies~~ ~~with~~ ~~certain~~ ~~provisions~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act;~~
requiring the Secretary of Health, in collaboration with the Maryland Health Care
Commission, to develop a Maryland Report Card for Birthing Facility Maternity
Care; requiring ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~to~~ ~~conduct~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~study~~ ~~of~~ ~~incidents~~ ~~of~~ ~~severe~~
~~maternal~~ ~~morbidity~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ hospitals and freestanding birthing centers to
participate in the Severe Maternal Morbidity Surveillance Program for a certain
purpose; and generally relating to maternal health.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 15–101(a), (h), and (i), 19–301(a) and (f), and 19–3B–01(a) and (d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 15–155, 19–310.4, and 19–3B–03.1; and 24–2401 and 24–2402 to be under
the new subtitle “Subtitle 24. Report Card for Birthing Facility Maternity
Care”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

15–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(h) “Program” means the Maryland Medical Assistance Program.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 799 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) “Program recipient” means an individual who receives benefits under the
Program.

15–155.

(A) IN SECTION, “PRENATAL FORM”THIS RISK ASSESSMENT MEANS A
DEPARTMENTSTANDARDIZED FORM DEVELOPED BY THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
CENTERS MEDICARE MEDICAID SERVICESTHE FOR AND GUIDELINES FOR USE BY
A LICENSED HEALTH CARE PROVIDER TO EVALUATE RISK FACTORS FOR THE
PATIENT.HEALTH OF A PREGNANT

(B) A PROGRAMPROVIDER WHO RECEIVES REIMBURSEMENT FROM THE
FOR PROVIDING OBSTETRIC SERVICES TO A PATIENT SHALL COMPLETE A PRENATAL
PATIENT:RISK ASSESSMENT FORM FOR THE

~~(1)~~ ~~DURING~~ PATIENT;DURING THE INITIAL VISIT WITH THE ~~AND~~

~~(2)~~ ~~DURING~~ ~~PATIENT’S~~ ~~PREGNANCY.~~~~THE~~ ~~THIRD~~ ~~TRIMESTER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

(C) AFTER COMPLETING A PRENATAL RISK ASSESSMENT FORM IN
(B) SECTION,ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS THE PROVIDER SHALL
SUBMIT THE FORM TO THE LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT FOR THE COUNTY IN
RESIDES.WHICH THE PATIENT

(D) ON OCTOBER 1 YEAR,OR BEFORE EACH EACH LOCAL HEALTH
DEPARTMENTDEPARTMENT SHALL SUBMIT TO THE A REPORT THAT INCLUDES THE
NUMBER AND TYPE OF REFERRALS MADE TO PATIENTS THAT WERE BASED ON THE
INFORMATION FROM THE PRENATAL RISK ASSESSMENT FORM COMPLETED IN
(B) SECTION.ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS

(E) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ESTABLISH A PROCESS FOR A PROVIDER TO
ELECTRONICALLY.SUBMIT A PRENATAL RISK ASSESSMENT FORM

19–301.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(f) “Hospital” means an institution that:

(1) Has a group of at least 5 physicians who are organized as a medical
staff for the institution;

(2) Maintains facilities to provide, under the supervision of the medical
staff, diagnostic and treatment services for 2 or more unrelated individuals; and

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 799

(3) Admits or retains the individuals for overnight care.

19–310.4.

(A) IF HIGH–RISKA NEWBORN IS DELIVERED IN A HOSPITAL FOLLOWING A
PREGNANCY, SHALL:THE HOSPITAL

(1) COMPLETE A POSTPARTUM INFANT AND MATERNAL REFERRAL
FORM AND SUBMIT THE FORM TO THE LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT FOR THE
RESIDES;COUNTY IN WHICH THE BIRTHING PARENT

(2) PROVIDE TO THE BIRTHING PARENT RESOURCES AND
PARENT,INFORMATION SPECIFIC TO THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE BIRTHING
RISKS, SIGNS, MEASURES,INCLUDING INFORMATION REGARDING THE PREVENTIVE
COMPLICATIONS,AND TREATMENT NEEDS FOR POSTPARTUM INCLUDING
CONDITIONS, DISEASE, MISUSE,CARDIOVASCULAR CHRONIC SUBSTANCE AND
CONDITIONS;MENTAL HEALTH AND

(3) CALL ~~12~~ 24,THE BIRTHING PARENT ~~WITHIN~~ AT LEAST BUT NOT
48,LATER THAN HOURS AFTER DISCHARGING THE PARENT TO EVALUATE THE
PARENT’S AND, NECESSARY,STATUS AS PROVIDE INFORMATION ABOUT
COMPLICATIONS.POSTPARTUM

(B) ON ~~MAY~~ OCTOBER 1 YEAR,OR BEFORE EACH EACH LOCAL HEALTH
DEPARTMENTDEPARTMENT SHALL SUBMIT TO THE A REPORT THAT INCLUDES THE
NUMBER AND TYPE OF REFERRALS MADE BASED ON THE REFERRAL FORMS
SUBMITTED TO THE LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
(A)(1) SECTION.SUBSECTION OF THIS

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~ASSISTANCE~~~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~PROVIDE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~REIMBURSEMENT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~
~~HIGH–RISK~~~~DELIVERY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~NEWBORN~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~A~~ ~~PREGNANCY~~ ~~UNLESS~~ ~~THE~~
~~(A)(1)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~HOSPITAL~~ ~~COMPLIES~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

19–3B–01.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(d) (1) “Freestanding birthing center” means a facility that provides nurse
midwife services under Title 8, Subtitle 6 of the Health Occupations Article.

(2) “Freestanding birthing center” does not include:

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 799 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) A hospital regulated under Subtitle 2 of this title; or

(ii) The private residence of the mother.

19–3B–03.1.

(A) IF A NEWBORN IS DELIVERED IN A FREESTANDING BIRTHING CENTER
HIGH–RISK PREGNANCY,FOLLOWING A THE FREESTANDING BIRTHING CENTER
SHALL:

(1) COMPLETE A POSTPARTUM INFANT AND MATERNAL REFERRAL
FORM AND SUBMIT THE FORM TO THE LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT FOR THE
RESIDES;COUNTY IN WHICH THE BIRTHING PARENT

(2) PROVIDE TO THE BIRTHING PARENT RESOURCES AND
PARENT,INFORMATION SPECIFIC TO THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE BIRTHING
RISKS, SIGNS, MEASURES,INCLUDING INFORMATION REGARDING THE PREVENTIVE
COMPLICATIONS,AND TREATMENT NEEDS FOR POSTPARTUM INCLUDING
CONDITIONS, DISEASE, MISUSE,CARDIOVASCULAR CHRONIC SUBSTANCE AND
CONDITIONS;MENTAL HEALTH AND

(3) CALL ~~12~~ 24,THE BIRTHING PARENT ~~WITHIN~~ AT LEAST BUT NOT
48,LATER THAN HOURS AFTER DISCHARGING THE PARENT TO EVALUATE THE
PARENT’S AND, NECESSARY,STATUS AS PROVIDE INFORMATION ABOUT
COMPLICATIONS.POSTPARTUM

(B) ON ~~MAY~~ OCTOBER 1 YEAR,OR BEFORE EACH EACH LOCAL HEALTH
DEPARTMENTDEPARTMENT SHALL SUBMIT TO THE A REPORT THAT INCLUDES THE
NUMBER AND TYPE OF REFERRALS MADE BASED ON THE REFERRAL FORMS
SUBMITTED TO THE LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
(A)(1) SECTION.SUBSECTION OF THIS

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~ASSISTANCE~~~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~PROVIDE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~REIMBURSEMENT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~FREESTANDING~~ ~~BIRTHING~~ ~~CENTER~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~SERVICES~~
~~HIGH–RISK~~~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DELIVERY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~NEWBORN~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~A~~ ~~PREGNANCY~~
~~(A)(1)~~~~UNLESS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FREESTANDING~~ ~~BIRTHING~~ ~~CENTER~~ ~~COMPLIES~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~
~~SECTION.~~~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

SUBTITLE 24. REPORT CARD BIRTHING FACILITY MATERNITY CARE.FOR

24–2401.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 799

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANING
INDICATED.

(B) “BIRTHING FACILITY” MEANS A FREESTANDING BIRTHING CENTER OR
CARE.A HOSPITAL THAT PROVIDES OBSTETRIC

(C) “FREESTANDING CENTER” §BIRTHING HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
19–3B–01 ARTICLE.OF THIS

(D) “HOSPITAL” § 19–301 ARTICLE.HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THIS

(E) “REPORT CARD” MARYLAND REPORT CARD BIRTHINGMEANS THE FOR
FACILITY MATERNITY CARE § 24–2402 SUBTITLE.DEVELOPED UNDER OF THIS

24–2402.

(A) SUBJECT (B) (C) SECTION,TO SUBSECTIONS AND OF THIS THE
SECRETARY, MARYLAND HEALTH CAREIN COLLABORATION WITH THE
COMMISSION, SHALL:

(1) DEVELOP MARYLAND REPORT CARD BIRTHING FACILITYA FOR
MATERNITY CARE; AND

(2) COLLECT THE NECESSARY INFORMATION TO COMPLETE AN
STATE.ANNUAL REPORT CARD FOR EACH BIRTHING FACILITY IN THE

(B) THE REPORT CARD SHALL INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION
FACILITY,FOR EACH BIRTHING DISAGGREGATED BY RACE AND AGE IN ACCORDANCE
SUPPRESSION:WITH BEST PRACTICES FOR DATA

(1) THE PERFORMED;NUMBER AND RATE OF VAGINAL DELIVERIES

(2) THE PERFORMED;NUMBER AND RATE OF CESAREAN DELIVERIES

(3) THE AGE–ADJUSTED RATE OF COMPLICATIONS AND THE TOTAL
NUMBER OF COMPLICATIONS EXPERIENCED BY A PATIENT RECEIVING OBSTETRIC
FOR:CARE

(I) A FACILITY,VAGINAL DELIVERY AT THE BIRTHING
HEMORRHAGE, LACERATION, INFECTION,INCLUDING MATERNAL OR ANY OTHER
SECRETARY;COMPLICATION AS REQUIRED BY THE OR

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 799 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) A FACILITY,CESAREAN DELIVERY AT THE BIRTHING
HEMORRHAGE, INFECTION, COMPLICATION,INCLUDING MATERNAL OPERATIVE OR
SECRETARY;ANY OTHER COMPLICATION AS REQUIRED BY THE AND

(4) QUALITATIVE MEASURES BASED ON PATIENT INPUT REGARDING
PATIENT’S CARE.THE RECEIPT OF RESPECTFUL OBSTETRIC

(C) THE REPORT CARD SCORE SHALL BE BALANCED FOR THE RISKS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE LEVEL OF ACUITY CARE PROVIDED FOR OBSTETRIC
FACILITY.PATIENTS SERVED BY THE BIRTHING

(D) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL INCLUDE THE MOST RECENT REPORT CARD
DEPARTMENT’S WEBSITE.ON THE

(E) (1) AT 3 YEARS, SECRETARYLEAST ~~ANNUALLY~~ ONCE EVERY THE
SHALL:

(I) REVIEW CARD;THE CRITERIA EVALUATED IN THE REPORT
AND

(II) REVISE THE COMPLICATIONS OR OTHER FACTORS TO BE
CARD.INCLUDED IN THE REPORT

(2) THE SECRETARY SHALL CONSIDER EXPERT GUIDANCE WHEN
CARD.REVIEWING THE CRITERIA EVALUATED IN THE REPORT

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) ~~The~~ ~~Maryland~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Health,~~ ~~in~~ ~~collaboration~~ ~~with~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~Hospital~~ ~~Association~~ ~~and~~ ~~local~~ ~~health~~ ~~departments,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~study~~ ~~the~~ ~~incidents~~ ~~of~~ ~~Severe~~
~~Maternal~~ ~~Morbidity~~ ~~(SMM)~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ Each hospital and freestanding birthing center
shall participate in the Severe Maternal Morbidity Surveillance and Review Program to:

(1) identify the contextual drivers ~~and~~ ~~trends~~ ~~in~~ ~~the,~~ risk factors ~~associated~~
~~with~~ ~~individuals~~ ~~experiencing,~~ and causes of SMM; ~~and~~

(2) study quality improvement efforts of hospitals and freestanding
birthing centers regarding SMM based on the reviews; and

(3) make recommendations to reduce the ~~incidents~~ prevalence of SMM in
the State.

(b) On or before December 1, 2025, the ~~Department~~ Severe Maternal Morbidity
Surveillance and Review Program shall report the findings and recommendations from the

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 799

study conducted under subsection (a) of this section to the Governor and, in accordance
with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, the General Assembly.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section 1 of this Act shall take
effect July 1, 2025.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section 2 of this Act shall take
effect October 1, 2024.

SECTION ~~3.~~ 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, except as provided in
Sections 3 and 4, this Act shall take effect ~~October~~ July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 7 –