PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 825

Chapter 825

(House Bill 1083)

AN ACT concerning

Alcoholic Beverages – Class 4 Limited Winery License – Requirements and
Authorizations

FOR the purpose of altering certain cultivation or production requirements applicable to
the holder of a Class 4 limited winery license by basing them on certain agricultural
products instead of grapes and other fruit; altering the standards for the purchase
of certain wine by a license holder; ~~repealing~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~authorization~~ ~~for~~ ~~a~~ ~~license~~
~~holder~~ ~~to~~ ~~blend~~ ~~certain~~ ~~wine~~ ~~under~~ ~~certain~~ ~~circumstances;~~ and generally relating to
Class 4 limited winery licenses.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 2–206
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

2–206.

(1) IN SECTION, “MARYLAND–GROWN(a) THIS AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCT” MEANS ANY PRODUCT PRODUCED OR CULTIVATED ON A FARM OR
STATE.VINEYARD IN THE

(2) “MARYLAND–GROWN PRODUCT”AGRICULTURAL DOES NOT
INCLUDE:

(I) CANNABIS; OR

(II) ANY OTHER PRODUCT CONTAINING
§ 36–1102 ARTICLE.TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL AS DEFINED IN OF THIS

(B) There is a Class 4 limited winery license.

(C)~~(b)~~ (1) A license holder may:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 825 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, from available
Maryland agricultural products:

1. ferment and bottle wine; and

2. distill and bottle pomace brandy; and

(ii) sell and deliver the wine and pomace brandy to:

1. a holder of a wholesaler’s license;

2. a holder of a permit that is authorized to acquire wine or
pomace brandy;

3. a person outside the State that is authorized to acquire
wine or pomace brandy; or

4. an individual in accordance with § 2–219 of this subtitle.

(2) A license holder:

[grapes(i) shall own or have under contract at least 20 acres of or
fruit] ~~MARYLAND~~ MARYLAND–GROWNother in cultivationAGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
[in State]the for use in the production of wine; or

(ii) except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, if less than
20 acres are owned or under contract, shall ensure that at least 51% of the ingredients used
[grapesin the annual production of the license holder’s wine are or other fruit grown in the
State] MARYLAND–GROWN PRODUCTS.AGRICULTURAL

(3) (i) The Secretary of Agriculture each year may grant a 1–year
exemption to an applicant from the percentage requirement under paragraph (2)(ii) of this
subsection.

(ii) The Secretary shall adopt regulations governing the granting of
an exemption under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, after consultation with the
Advisory Commission on Maryland Alcohol Manufacturing, the Maryland Grape Growers
Association, the Maryland Wineries Association, and other interested parties.

(4) Except as provided in Subtitle 3 of this title, a license holder need not
obtain any other license to possess, manufacture, sell, or transport wine or pomace brandy.

(5) A license holder may:

(i) sell wine and pomace brandy produced by the license holder for
on– and off–premises consumption;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 825

(ii) in an amount not exceeding 2 fluid ounces per brand, provide
samples of wine and pomace brandy that the license holder produces to a consumer:

1. at no charge; or

2. for a fee; and

(iii) subject to paragraphs (6) and (7) of this subsection, prepare, sell,
or serve only:

1. bread and other baked goods;

2. chili;

3. chocolate;

4. crackers;

5. cured meat;

6. fruits (whole and cut);

7. hard and soft cheese (whole and cut);

8. salads and vegetables (whole and cut);

9. the following items made with Maryland wine:

A. ice cream;

B. jam;

C. jelly; and

D. vinegar;

10. pizza;

11. sandwiches and other light fare;

12. soup; and

13. condiments.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 825 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(6) (i) A caterer is not limited to preparing, selling, or serving only the
foods specified in paragraph (5)(iii) of this subsection.

(ii) A license holder or entity in which the license holder has a
pecuniary interest may not act as a caterer of food.

(7) Subject to paragraph (8) of this subsection, a license holder may conduct
the activities specified in paragraph (5) of this subsection from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. each day.

(8) Except as provided in Division II of this article, the license allows the
license holder to operate 7 days a week.

(9) Nothing in this subsection limits the application of relevant provisions
of Title 21 of the Health – General Article, and regulations adopted under that title, to a
license holder.

(D)~~(c)~~ The place listed on the license shall be in compliance with § 1–405(b) of
this article.

(E)~~(d)~~ A license holder may:

(1) store on its licensed premises, in a segregated area approved by the
Executive Director, the product of other Class 4 limited wineries to be used at Maryland
Wineries Association promotional activities, provided records are maintained and reports
filed regarding the storage under this item as may be required by the Executive Director;

(2) distill and bottle not more than 1,900 gallons of pomace brandy made
from available Maryland agricultural products;

~~[bulk]~~ ~~MARYLAND~~(3) purchase wine~~FINISHED~~ MADE ENTIRELY OF
MARYLAND–GROWN fermented by a manufacturer licensedAGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
~~[and~~under this article blend the wine with the license holder’s wine and pomace brandy if
75%the aggregate purchase does not exceed ~~25%~~ of the license holder’s annual wine and
~~production];~~pomace brandy

(4) purchase pomace brandy only for blending with wine;

(5) import, export, and transport its wine and pomace brandy in accordance
with this section; and

(6) produce wine and pomace brandy at a warehouse for which the license
holder has been issued an individual storage permit, if:

(i) the license holder does not serve or sell wine or pomace brandy
at a warehouse to the public; and

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 825

(ii) the Executive Director has full access at all times to the
warehouse to enforce this article.

(F)~~(e)~~ A Class 4 limited winery may be located only at the place stated on the
license.

(G)~~(f)~~ If a license holder maintains the records and files the reports that the
Comptroller and the Executive Director require, the license holder may:

(1) in the State, conduct winemaking and packaging activities at another
federally bonded winery or limited winery; or

(2) outside the State, conduct winemaking and packaging activities, other
than fermentation, at another federally bonded winery.

(H)~~(g)~~ Throughout the winemaking process, the license holder shall:

(1) maintain ownership of the wine or pomace brandy; and

(2) ensure that the wine or pomace brandy returns to the location of the
limited winery.

(I)~~(h)~~ The annual license fee:

(1) shall be determined by the Executive Director; and

(2) may not exceed $200.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 5 –