PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 691

Chapter 691

(House Bill 1017)

AN ACT concerning

Boundary of the Frederick County Soil Conservation District – Alteration

FOR the purpose of ~~altering~~ ~~the~~ ~~boundary~~ ~~of~~ establishing the Frederick County Soil
Conservation District to include the Catoctin Soil Conservation District and the
Frederick Soil Conservation District; and generally relating to the Frederick County
Soil Conservation District.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Agriculture
Section 8–301 and 8–405(c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Agriculture

8–301.

[24] 23(a) The soil conservation districts are established and continued with
boundaries[, County,]boundaries corresponding to county except for Frederick and include
all land and water and incorporated areas, as follows:

(1) Allegany Soil Conservation District;

(2) Anne Arundel Soil Conservation District;

(3) Baltimore County Soil Conservation District;

(4) Calvert Soil Conservation District;

(5) Caroline Soil Conservation District;

(6) Carroll Soil Conservation District;

(7) Cecil Soil Conservation District;

(8) Charles Soil Conservation District;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 691 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(9) Dorchester Soil Conservation District;

FREDERICK COUNTY SOIL CONSERVATION DISTRICT;(10)

(11) Garrett Soil Conservation District;

[(11)] (12) Harford Soil Conservation District;

[(12)] (13) Howard Soil Conservation District;

[(13)] (14) Kent Soil Conservation District;

[(14)] (15) Montgomery Soil Conservation District;

[(15)] (16) Prince George’s Soil Conservation District;

[(16)] (17) Queen Anne’s Soil Conservation District;

[(17)] (18) St. Mary’s Soil Conservation District;

[(18)] (19) Somerset Soil Conservation District;

[(19)] (20) Talbot Soil Conservation District;

[(20)] (21) Washington County Soil Conservation District;

[(21)] (22) Wicomico Soil Conservation District; AND

[(22)] (23) District[;Worcester Soil Conservation

(23) Catoctin Soil Conservation District within the area of Frederick County
bounded by the Washington–Frederick County line, the Potomac River, and the eastern
and northern boundaries of the Catoctin Creek watershed; and

(24) The Frederick Soil Conservation District comprising the balance of
area].Frederick County land and water

(b) A Baltimore City Soil Conservation District may be established and continued
with boundaries corresponding to the boundaries of Baltimore City.

8–405.

(c) (1) The Governor shall include in the annual budget bill an amount
sufficient to employ not less than 110 field personnel in the soil conservation districts under
this title.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 691

[24] 23(2) The appropriation for the soil conservation districts shall be as
follows:

(i) For fiscal year 2008, $8,800,000;

(ii) For fiscal year 2009, $9,200,000;

(iii) For fiscal year 2010, $9,600,000; and

(iv) For fiscal year 2011 and each fiscal year thereafter, $10,000,000.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 3 –