PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 889

Chapter 889

(House Bill 1078)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Medical Assistance Program – Remote Ultrasound Procedures and
Remote Fetal Nonstress Tests

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Medical Assistance Program to provide remote
ultrasound procedures and remote fetal nonstress tests under certain circumstances;
and generally relating to the Maryland Medical Assistance Program and remote
ultrasound procedures and remote fetal nonstress tests.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 15–103(a)(1)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 15–103(a)(2)(ii)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 15–141.5
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

15–103.

(a) (1) The Secretary shall administer the Maryland Medical Assistance
Program.

(2) The Program:

(ii) Shall provide, subject to the limitations of the State budget,
services,comprehensive medical, dental, and other health care INCLUDING SERVICES

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 889 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

§ 15–141.5 SUBTITLE, for all eligiblePROVIDED IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
pregnant women whose family income is at or below 250 percent of the poverty level for the
duration of the pregnancy and for 1 year immediately following the end of the woman’s
pregnancy, as permitted by the federal law;

15–141.5.

(A) SUBJECT (B) (C) SECTION,TO SUBSECTIONS AND OF THIS THE
PROGRAM SHALL PROVIDE REMOTE ULTRASOUND PROCEDURES AND REMOTE
IF:FETAL NONSTRESS TESTS USING CURRENT PROCEDURAL TERMINOLOGY CODES

(1) THE PATIENT IS IN A RESIDENCE OR A LOCATION OTHER THAN
PATIENT’S PROVIDER;THE OFFICE OF THE AND

(2) THE PROVIDER FOLLOWS THE SAME STANDARD OF CARE THAT
ON–SITE.THE PROVIDER WOULD FOLLOW WHEN PROVIDING THE SERVICES

(B) THE PROGRAM SHALL REQUIRE THAT A PROVIDER OFFERING A
REMOTE ULTRASOUND PROCEDURE OR REMOTE FETAL NONSTRESS TEST USE
TECHNOLOGY:DIGITAL

(1) TO COLLECT ANY HEALTH DATA FROM THE PATIENT AND
ELECTRONICALLY TRANSMIT THE INFORMATION IN A SECURE MANNER TO A
HEALTH CARE PROVIDER IN A DIFFERENT LOCATION FOR INTERPRETATION AND
RECOMMENDATIONS;

(2) THAT HEALTH INSURANCEIS COMPLIANT WITH THE FEDERAL
PORTABILITY ACCOUNTABILITY ACT 1996;AND OF AND

(3) THAT FOOD DRUGIS APPROVED BY THE FEDERAL AND
ADMINISTRATION.

(C) (1) THE PROGRAM SHALL PROVIDE REIMBURSEMENT FOR A REMOTE
ON–SITEFETAL NONSTRESS TEST IN THE SAME MANNER AS AN FETAL NONSTRESS
TEST.

(2) A REMOTE FETAL NONSTRESS TEST FOR WHICH REIMBURSEMENT
(1)IS PROVIDED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION SHALL REQUIRE THE USE
FOODOF REMOTE MONITORING SOLUTIONS THAT ARE CLEARED BY THE FEDERAL
DRUG ADMINISTRATION ON–LABEL MONITORING:AND FOR USE FOR

(I) FETAL RATE;HEART

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 889

(II) MATERNAL RATE;HEART AND

(III) UTERINE ACTIVITY.

(D) THE PROGRAM PROGRAMSHALL ISSUE GUIDANCE FOR PROVIDERS TO
SECTION.CARRY OUT THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 3 –