PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1028

Chapter 1028

(House Bill 1089)

AN ACT concerning

Baltimore City – Alcoholic Beverages – ~~Class~~ ~~B~~ ~~Beer,~~ ~~Wine,~~ ~~and~~ ~~Liquor~~ ~~License~~ ~~–~~
~~Downtown~~ ~~Management~~ ~~District~~ Class B Beer, Wine, and Liquor Licenses

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Board of License Commissioners for Baltimore City to
issue a Class B beer, wine, and liquor license in a certain ~~Downtown~~ ~~Management~~
~~District~~ area; establishing the requirements for a holder of the license; and generally
relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in Baltimore City.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 12–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 12–1606
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

12–102.

This title applies only in Baltimore City.

12–1606.

(A) ~~IN~~ ~~SECTION,~~ ~~“DOWNTOWN~~ ~~MANAGEMENT~~ ~~DISTRICT”~~~~THIS~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~THE~~
~~§~~ ~~7–504.2(A)~~ ~~TAX~~ ~~–~~ ~~PROPERTY~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~MEANING~~ ~~STATED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(B)~~ NOTWITHSTANDING TITLE,ANY OTHER PROVISION OF LAW IN THIS THE
BOARD CLASS B BEER, WINE,MAY ISSUE A AND LIQUOR LICENSE FOR USE BY A
~~DOWNTOWN~~ ~~MANAGEMENT~~ ~~DISTRICT~~ 4, 1RESTAURANT IN ~~THE~~ WARD PRECINCTS
2 THAT:AND

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1028 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) HAS AVERAGE DAILY RECEIPTS FROM THE SALE OF FOOD THAT
51% RESTAURANT;ARE AT LEAST OF THE TOTAL DAILY RECEIPTS OF THE

(2) BALTIMORE CITY HEALTHHAS BEEN CLASSIFIED BY THE
DEPARTMENT AS:

(I) FACILITY;A HIGH PRIORITY FOOD SERVICE OR

(II) FACILITY;A MODERATE PRIORITY FOOD SERVICE AND

(3) HAS EXECUTED A MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING WITH THE
DOWNTOWN PARTNERSHIP BALTIMORE.OF

~~(C)~~ (B) (1) EXCEPT (2) SUBSECTION,AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
THE HOLDER OF A LICENSE ISSUED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY NOT SELL ALCOHOLIC
OFF–PREMISES CONSUMPTION.BEVERAGES FOR

(2) THE BOARD MAY ISSUE THE HOLDER OF A LICENSE ISSUED
§UNDER THIS SECTION A REFILLABLE CONTAINER PERMIT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
12–1102 TITLE.OF THIS

~~(D)~~ (C) A LICENSE ISSUED UNDER THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED
ISSUANCE.FROM THE LOCATION OF ITS FIRST

~~(E)~~ (D) IF RENEWED,A LICENSE ISSUED UNDER THIS SECTION IS THE LICENSE
BOARD APPLICATION:HOLDER SHALL FILE WITH THE AS PART OF ITS RENEWAL

(1) A STATEMENT DETAILING THE AVERAGE DAILY RECEIPTS FROM
RESTAURANT;THE

(2) AN AFFIDAVIT FROM A CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT THAT
VERIFIES THAT THE LICENSE HOLDER MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF SUBSECTION
(B)(1) SECTION;OF THIS AND

(3) BOARD REQUIRES.ANY OTHER INFORMATION THAT THE

~~(F)~~ (E) THE BOARD:

(1) MAY NOT ISSUE A NEW LICENSE UNDER THIS SECTION AFTER
JUNE 30, 2028; BUT

(2) JUNEMAY CONTINUE TO RENEW LICENSES ISSUED ON OR BEFORE
30, 2028.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1028

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 3 –