PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 746

Chapter 746

(House Bill 1065)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Maryland Entertainment District Security Grant Program

FOR the purpose of establishing the Maryland Entertainment District Security Grant
Program; establishing the Maryland Entertainment District Security Grant
Program Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; and generally relating to the Maryland
Entertainment District Security Grant Program.

BY adding to
Article – Public Safety
Section 4–1701 through 4–1703 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 17. Maryland
Entertainment District Security Grant Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

SUBTITLE 17. MARYLAND ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT SECURITY GRANT
PROGRAM.

4–1701.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION” MEANS A NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION
LOCATED.RECOGNIZED BY THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION IN WHICH IT IS

(C) “PROGRAM” MARYLAND ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICTMEANS THE
SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM.

4–1702.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 746 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) “ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT” ONE–HALFMEANS A SQUARE MILE
STATE PRESENT:AREA IN THE IN WHICH ~~EITHER~~ ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ~~ARE~~ IS

(I) A HIGH DENSITY OF ESTABLISHMENTS LICENSED TO SERVE
ON–SITE CONSUMPTION;ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR ~~OR~~

(II) A HIGH DENSITY OF ESTABLISHMENTS THAT ARE HOOKAH
BARS; OR

~~(II)~~ (III) A HIGH DENSITY OF ESTABLISHMENTS THAT
REGULARLY HOST LIVE ENTERTAINMENT FOR THEIR PATRONS OR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC.

(3) “EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR” EXECUTIVE DIRECTORMEANS THE OF
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH, VICTIM SERVICES.THE OF AND

(B) THERE MARYLAND ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT SECURITY GRANTIS A
PROGRAM.

(C) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO ASSIST COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS, ENTITIES,NONPROFIT AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO FUND
SECURITY OPERATIONS DURING TIMES OF HIGH PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC IN
ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICTS FROM WHICH A HIGHER THAN AVERAGE NUMBER OF
PLACED.CALLS FOR POLICE ASSISTANCE IN RESPONSE TO REPORTED CRIME ARE

(D) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ESTABLISH:SHALL

(1) AN APPLICATION PROCESS FOR COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS AND
DISTRICTS,NONPROFIT ENTITIES LOCATED IN ENTERTAINMENT AND LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS WITH ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICTS LOCATED WITHIN THE
JURISDICTION, PROGRAM;TO APPLY FOR GRANT FUNDING FROM THE

(2) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING RECIPIENTS FOR GRANT
PROGRAM;FUNDING FROM THE AND

(3) MINIMUM CRITERIA FOR AN ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT FOR THE
PURPOSE OF DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANT FUNDING FROM THE
PROGRAM, INCLUDING:

(I) THE DENSITY OF ESTABLISHMENTS LICENSED TO SERVE
ON–SITE CONSUMPTION, BARS,ALCOHOL FOR HOOKAH OR ESTABLISHMENTS THAT
REGULARLY HOST LIVE ENTERTAINMENT FOR THEIR PATRONS OR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 746

(II) TRAFFIC;THE AMOUNT OF PEDESTRIAN AND

(III) THE NUMBER OF CALLS FOR POLICE ASSISTANCE IN
CRIMES.RESPONSE TO REPORTED

4–1703.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” MARYLAND ENTERTAINMENTTHIS MEANS THE
DISTRICT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM FUND.

(B) THERE MARYLAND ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT SECURITY GRANTIS A
PROGRAM FUND.

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE FUNDING FOR GRANTS
PROGRAM.AWARDED UNDER THE

(D) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH,OF AND
VICTIM SERVICES FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(F) (1) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(I) STATEMONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE
FUND; AND

(II) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED
FUND.FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE

(2) BEGINNING 2026IN FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR
THEREAFTER, GOVERNOR $1,000,000THE MAY ANNUALLY APPROPRIATE UP TO TO
FUND.THE

(G) THE FUND ONLY:MAY BE USED

(1) ORGANIZATIONS,TO FUND GRANTS TO COMMUNITY NONPROFIT
ENTITIES, PROGRAM;AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS THROUGH THE AND

(2) FUND.FOR COSTS TO ADMINISTER THE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 746 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
GENERAL FUND STATE.THE OF THE

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(J) MONEY FUND PROGRAMEXPENDED FROM THE FOR THE IS
SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF FUNDING THAT
PROGRAM.OTHERWISE WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 4 –