PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 262

Chapter 262

(House Bill 1047)

AN ACT concerning

Consumer Protection – Self–Administered Sexual Assault Evidence Collection
Kits

FOR the purpose of providing that a party in a criminal trial involving an allegation of ~~a~~
~~sexual~~ ~~crime~~ sexually assaultive behavior may not introduce ~~evidence~~ information
that physical evidence of ~~a~~ ~~sexual~~ ~~crime~~ sexually assaultive behavior was obtained
using certain materials; providing that selling, offering for sale, or distributing a
certain self–administered sexual assault evidence collection kit is an unfair,
deceptive, or abusive trade practice; establishing the Forensic Nurse Examiner
Training Grant Program; establishing the Forensic Nurse Examiner Training Grant
Program Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; prohibiting the limitation or waiver of
certain rights and warranties on certain products used to collect evidence of a sexual
assault; and generally relating to self–administered sexual assault evidence
collection kits.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Commercial Law
Section 13–301(14)(xl)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Commercial Law
Section 13–301(14)(xli)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Commercial Law
Section 13–301(14)(xlii); and 14–4601 through 14–4604 to be under the new subtitle
“Subtitle 46. Self–Administered Sexual Assault Evidence Collection Kits”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 10–925
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 262 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Article – Criminal Procedure
Section 11–926(j)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Criminal Procedure
Section 11–926(j)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Commercial Law

13–301.

Unfair, abusive, or deceptive trade practices include any:

(14) Violation of a provision of:

[or](xl) Title 14, Subtitle 13 of the Public Safety Article;

(xli) Title 14, Subtitle 45 of this article; or

(XLII)TITLE 14, SUBTITLE 46 ARTICLE;OF THIS OR

SUBTITLE 46. SELF–ADMINISTERED SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION
KITS.

14–4601.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “PROGRAM” FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINER TRAININGMEANS THE
GRANT PROGRAM.

(C) “QUALIFIED PROVIDER” §HEALTH CARE HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
11–926 CRIMINAL PROCEDURE ARTICLE.OF THE

(D) “SELF–ADMINISTERED KIT”SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION
MEANS MATERIALS ADVERTISED OR MARKETED AS A MEANS FOR A PERSON OTHER

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 262

THAN A QUALIFIED HEALTH CARE PROVIDER TO COLLECT PHYSICAL EVIDENCE OF
CRIME.A SEXUAL

(E) “SEXUAL CRIME” § 10–925HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
COURTS ARTICLE.

14–4602.

(A) THIS SELF–ADMINISTEREDSECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A SEXUAL
MARYLANDASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION KIT THAT IS ISSUED BY THE
DEPARTMENT HEALTH.OF

(B) A SELL, SALE,PERSON MAY NOT OFFER FOR OR DISTRIBUTE A
SELF–ADMINISTERED KIT.SEXUAL ASSAULT EVIDENCE COLLECTION

(C) (1) A IS:VIOLATION OF THIS SECTION

(I) AN UNFAIR, ABUSIVE, OR DECEPTIVE TRADE PRACTICE
TITLE 13 ARTICLE;WITHIN THE MEANING OF OF THIS AND

(II) SUBJECT TO THE ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
TITLE 13 ARTICLE.PROVISIONS CONTAINED IN OF THIS

(2) (I) IN TITLE 13ADDITION TO ANY PENALTY IMPOSED UNDER
ARTICLE,OF THIS A PERSON WHO VIOLATES THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO A CIVIL
$1,000 VIOLATION.PENALTY NOT EXCEEDING FOR EACH

(II) THE (I)CIVIL PENALTY UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
STATEPARAGRAPH IS RECOVERABLE BY THE IN A CIVIL ACTION OR AN
§ 13–403(A) (B)ADMINISTRATIVE CEASE AND DESIST ACTION UNDER AND OF THIS
§ARTICLE OR AFTER AN ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING HAS BEEN HELD UNDER
13–403(D)(3) (4) ARTICLE.AND OF THIS

(D) ONLY ATTORNEY GENERAL SECTION.THE MAY ENFORCE THIS

(E) ALL FINES, PENALTIES, AND DAMAGES COLLECTED FOR VIOLATIONS OF
FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINERTHIS SECTION SHALL BE DEPOSITED INTO THE
TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM FUND § 14–4604ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS
SUBTITLE.

14–4603.

(A) THERE FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINER TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM.IS A

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 262 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO ASSIST NONPROFIT ENTITIES
STATETHAT PROVIDE RESOURCES FOR VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE TO
STATEFUND TRAINING FOR NURSES IN THE TO DEVELOP SKILLS IN CONDUCTING
ASSAULT.FORENSIC EXAMINATIONS OF VICTIMS OF SEXUAL

(C) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH,OF AND
VICTIM SERVICES ESTABLISH:SHALL

(1) AN APPLICATION PROCESS FOR NONPROFIT ENTITIES AND
STATEHIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS AND COLLEGES IN THE TO APPLY FOR
PROGRAM;GRANT FUNDING FROM THE AND

(2) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING RECIPIENTS FOR GRANT
PROGRAM.FUNDING FROM THE

14–4604.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINERTHIS MEANS THE
TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM FUND.

(B) THERE FORENSIC NURSE EXAMINER TRAINING GRANT PROGRAMIS A
FUND.

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE FUNDING FOR GRANTS
PROGRAM.AWARDED UNDER THE

(D) THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE CRIME PREVENTION, YOUTH,OF AND
VICTIM SERVICES FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(F) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) REVENUE FUND § 14–4602DISTRIBUTED TO THE UNDER OF THIS
SUBTITLE; AND

(2) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 262

(G) THE FUND MAY BE USED ONLY TO FUND GRANTS TO NONPROFIT
PROGRAM.ENTITIES THROUGH THE

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
GENERAL FUND STATE.THE OF THE

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

10–925.

~~(A)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SECTION,~~ ~~“SEXUAL~~ ~~CRIME”~~ ~~MEANS:~~~~THIS~~

~~(1)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~3,~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~3~~ ~~CRIMINAL~~ ~~LAW~~~~OFFENSE~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ARTICLE;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~§~~ ~~3–604~~~~SEXUAL~~ ~~ABUSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~MINOR~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~CRIMINAL~~ ~~LAW~~ ~~ARTICLE;~~ ~~OR~~

~~(3)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~§~~ ~~3–802~~~~SEXUAL~~ ~~ABUSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~VULNERABLE~~ ~~ADULT~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~
~~CRIMINAL~~ ~~LAW~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~THE~~

(A) IN SECTION, “SEXUALLY BEHAVIOR”THIS ASSAULTIVE HAS THE
§ 10–923 SUBTITLE.MEANING STATED IN OF THIS

(B) ~~EVIDENCE~~ INFORMATION THAT PHYSICAL EVIDENCE OF ~~A~~ ~~SEXUAL~~
~~CRIME~~ SEXUALLY ASSAULTIVE BEHAVIOR WAS OBTAINED USING MATERIALS THAT
SOLD, SALE,WERE OFFERED FOR OR DISTRIBUTED IN A MANNER THAT WOULD
§ 14–4602 COMMERCIAL LAW ARTICLECONSTITUTE A VIOLATION OF OF THE IS NOT
ADMISSIBLE IN A CRIMINAL OR CIVIL PROCEEDING INVOLVING AN ALLEGATION OF
BEHAVIOR.~~A~~ ~~SEXUAL~~ ~~CRIME~~ SEXUALLY ASSAULTIVE

(C) THIS SECTION MAY NOT BE CONSTRUED TO REQUIRE A COURT TO ADMIT
EVIDENCE.PHYSICAL

Article – Criminal Procedure

11–926.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 262 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(J) (1) ANY AGREEMENT, USE,CONDITION OF ACCESS OR OR POLICY
THAT LIMITS OR WAIVES ANY SUBSTANTIVE OR PROCEDURAL RIGHT OR REMEDY TO
A CLAIM AGAINST ANY PERSON WHO PROVIDES A VICTIM OR ANOTHER PERSON WITH
SERVICE, PRODUCT, INFORMATION,ANY OR OTHER MEANS TO COLLECT EVIDENCE
OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT IS NULL AND VOID AS BEING AGAINST THE PUBLIC POLICY OF
STATE.THE

(2) ANY WARRANTIES, IMPLIED,DISCLAIMER OF ANY EXPRESS OR OF
MERCHANTABILITY, PURPOSE,FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR OR NONINFRINGEMENT
SERVICE, PRODUCT, INFORMATION,REGARDING ANY OR OTHER MEANS TO COLLECT
EVIDENCE OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT IS NULL AND VOID AS BEING AGAINST THE PUBLIC
STATE.POLICY OF THE

[(j)] (K) The Attorney General shall adopt regulations for uniform statewide
implementation of this section.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act ~~shall~~ ~~take~~ ~~effect~~
~~October~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024~~ is an emergency measure, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
public health or safety, has been passed by a yea and nay vote supported by three–fifths of
all the members elected to each of the two Houses of the General Assembly, and shall take
effect from the date it is enacted.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 6 –