PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 488

Chapter 488

(House Bill 1147)

AN ACT concerning

Environment – Playground Surfacing Materials – Prohibitions

FOR the purpose of prohibiting, on or after a certain date, a person from ~~using~~ installing,
supplying, selling, soliciting, or offering for sale playground surfacing materials that
contain a certain concentration of lead or a component product, material, or
substance to which PFAS chemicals were previously intentionally added for certain
purposes ~~certain~~ ~~concentrations~~ ~~of~~ ~~certain~~ ~~chemicals~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~construction~~ ~~or~~
~~renovation~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~ground~~ ~~surface~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~playground~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State;~~ prohibiting a county,
municipality, or unit of local government from adopting any ordinance, rule, or
regulation related to the use of certain playground surfacing materials that is less
stringent than the requirements of this Act; requiring a certain manufacturer to
establish and provide to the Department of the Environment a certain certificate of
compliance under certain circumstances; and generally relating to playground
surfacing materials.

BY adding to
Article – Environment
Section 6–16A–01 through 6–16A–05 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 16A.
Playground Surfacing Materials”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Environment

SUBTITLE 16A. PLAYGROUND SURFACING MATERIALS.

6–16A–01.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

~~(B)~~ ~~“PAH”~~ ~~HYDROCARBONS.~~~~MEANS~~ ~~POLYCYCLIC~~ ~~AROMATIC~~

~~(C)~~ (B) “PFAS CHEMICALS” MEANS A CLASS OF FLUORINATED ORGANIC
ATOM,CHEMICALS THAT CONTAIN AT LEAST ONE FULLY FLUORINATED CARBON
PER– SUBSTANCES.INCLUDING AND POLYFLUOROALKYL

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 488 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(D)~~ (C) “PLAYGROUND” MEANS A PUBLIC OUTDOOR RECREATION AREA
STRUCTURES.FOR CHILDREN EQUIPPED WITH ONE OR MORE PLAY

~~(E)~~ (D) “PLAYGROUND MATERIALS” PRODUCTS,SURFACING MEANS
MATERIALS, OR SUBSTANCES USED OR INSTALLED ON THE GROUND SURFACE OF A
STATE PERSON.PLAYGROUND IN THE THAT COME INTO DIRECT CONTACT WITH A

6–16A–02.

(A) EXCEPT SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN THIS THIS SUBTITLE DOES NOT LIMIT
COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY,THE POWER OF A OR UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TO
ORDINANCES, RULES,ADOPT OR REGULATIONS RELATED TO PLAYGROUND
~~PAH,~~ ~~PFAS,~~ PFAS LEAD.SURFACING MATERIALS THAT CONTAIN CHEMICALS OR

(B) A COUNTY, MUNICIPALITY, OR UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT MAY NOT
ORDINANCE, RULE,ADOPT ANY OR REGULATION RELATED TO PLAYGROUND
~~PAH,~~ ~~PFAS,~~ PFASSURFACING MATERIALS THAT CONTAIN CHEMICALS OR LEAD
SUBTITLE.THAT IS LESS STRINGENT THAN THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(C) THIS COUNTY,SUBTITLE DOES NOT AFFECT THE AUTHORITY OF A
MUNICIPALITY, OR UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT TO ENACT AND ENFORCE
STANDARDS OR REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO PLAYGROUND SURFACING MATERIALS
~~PAH,~~ ~~PFAS,~~ PFASTHAT CONTAIN CHEMICALS OR LEAD THAT ARE MORE
SUBTITLE.STRINGENT THAN THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

6–16A–03.

(A) ON OCTOBER 1, 2024, INSTALL,OR AFTER A PERSON MAY NOT ~~USE~~
SUPPLY, SELL, SOLICIT, STATEOR OFFER FOR SALE IN THE PLAYGROUND
CONTAIN:SURFACING MATERIALS THAT

(1) MORE 90 LEAD;THAN PARTS PER MILLION OF OR

(2) A PRODUCT, MATERIAL,COMPONENT OR SUBSTANCE TO WHICH
PFAS CHEMICALS WERE PREVIOUSLY INTENTIONALLY ADDED IN THE FORMATION
PFASOF THAT COMPONENT WHERE THE CONTINUED PRESENCE OF THE
CHEMICALS WAS DESIRED IN THE COMPONENT TO PROVIDE A SPECIFIC
CHARACTERISTIC.

~~(2)~~ ~~FLUORINATED~~ ~~1~~~~ORGANIC~~ ~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~CONTAIN~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~
~~ATOM,~~ ~~PFAS~~ ~~SUBSTANCES;~~~~FULLY~~ ~~FLUORINATED~~ ~~CARBON~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~20~~ ~~PAH.~~~~THAN~~ ~~MILLIGRAMS~~ ~~PER~~ ~~KILOGRAM~~ ~~OF~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 488

(B) A MANUFACTURES, SELLS, SALE,MANUFACTURER THAT OFFERS FOR
STATEOR DISTRIBUTES FOR USE IN THE PLAYGROUND SURFACING MATERIALS
SHALL ESTABLISH A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE TO ATTEST THAT THE
PLAYGROUND SURFACING MATERIALS ARE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
SUBTITLE.REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(C) ON DEPARTMENT 30REQUEST OF THE AND WITHIN DAYS AFTER THE
MADE,REQUEST IS A MANUFACTURER SHALL PROVIDE THE CERTIFICATE OF
(B)COMPLIANCE ESTABLISHED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION TO THE
DEPARTMENT.

6–16A–04.

THE DEPARTMENT SUBTITLE.MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS

6–16A–05.

(A) EXCEPT (B) SECTION,AS PROVIDED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS THE
§§ 9–334 9–341 9–343 9–344PROVISIONS OF THROUGH AND THROUGH OF THIS
OF:ARTICLE APPLY TO ENFORCE VIOLATIONS

(1) THIS SUBTITLE;

(2) ANY SUBTITLE;REGULATION ADOPTED UNDER THIS OR

(3) ANY SUBTITLE.ORDER ISSUED UNDER THIS

(B) A TO:PERSON WHO VIOLATES THIS SUBTITLE IS SUBJECT

(1) A $2,500 VIOLATION;CIVIL PENALTY UP TO FOR EACH OR

(2) AN $2,500ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY UP TO FOR EACH
VIOLATION, $100,000 TOTAL.BUT NOT EXCEEDING

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall be construed to
apply only prospectively and may not be applied or interpreted to have any effect on or
application to any contract awarded for the installation, supply, sale, solicitation, or offer
for sale of playground surfacing materials before the effective date of this Act.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 3 –