PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 421

Chapter 421

(House Bill 1128)

AN ACT concerning

Labor and Employment – Workforce Development – Talent Innovation Program
and Fund

FOR the purpose of establishing the Talent Innovation Program in the Maryland
Department of Labor to increase access to high–quality job training; establishing the
Talent Innovation Fund as a special, nonlapsing fund; requiring interest earnings of
the Fund to be credited to the Fund; and generally relating to the Talent Innovation
Program and Talent Innovation Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Labor and Employment
Section 11–1601 through 11–1604 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 16. Talent
Innovation Program and Fund”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)189. and 190.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)191.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Labor and Employment

SUBTITLE 16. TALENT INNOVATION PROGRAM FUND.AND

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 421 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

11–1601.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “BOARD” GOVERNOR’S WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENTMEANS THE
BOARD.

(C) “DIVISION” DIVISION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENTMEANS THE OF AND
ADULT LEARNING.

(D) “FUND” TALENT INNOVATION FUND.MEANS THE

(E) “PROGRAM” TALENT INNOVATION PROGRAM.MEANS THE

11–1602.

(A) (1) THERE TALENT INNOVATION PROGRAMIS A IN THE
DEPARTMENT.

(2) THE DIVISION BOARDAND THE SHALL JOINTLY ADMINISTER THE
PROGRAM.

(3) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO INCREASE ACCESS TO
HIGH–QUALITY JOB TRAINING BY USING INNOVATIVE AND SUSTAINABLE TALENT
STATE’SFINANCING MECHANISMS TO HELP MEET SKILL NEEDS IN THE PROMINENT
SECTORS, INCLUDING:AND EMERGING INDUSTRY

(I) CYBERSECURITY;

(II) CARE;HEALTH

(III) BIOTECHNOLOGY;

(IV) MANUFACTURING; AND

(V) INTELLIGENCE.ARTIFICIAL

~~(4)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TALENT~~ ~~FINANCE~~ ~~MECHANISMS~~ ~~SUPPORTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~INCLUDE:~~~~MAY~~

~~(I)~~ ~~“PAY–~~ ~~IT–FORWARD”~~ ~~REVOLVING–DOOR~~ ~~MODEL;~~~~A~~ ~~FUNDING~~

~~(II)~~ ~~PAY–FOR–PERFORMANCE~~ ~~PROGRAMS;~~ ~~OR~~

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 421

~~(III)~~ ~~MODELS,~~~~FINANCING~~ ~~TO~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~TRAINING~~ ~~INCLUDING~~
~~APPRENTICESHIP,~~~~REGISTERED~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~TALENT~~ ~~DEVELOPMENT~~ ~~FOR~~
~~HIGH–DEMAND~~ ~~OCCUPATIONS.~~

(B) THE PROGRAM PILOTS, STAKEHOLDERS,MAY CONDUCT CONVENE KEY
AND CONDUCT RESEARCH TO DEVELOP AND SUPPORT NEW TALENT FINANCING
APPROACHES.

(C) THE PROGRAM SHALL ESTABLISH AN INITIAL PILOT PROGRAM THAT
FOCUSES ON THE CYBERSECURITY SECTOR BY SUPPORTING JOB TRAINING
RANGES,THROUGH EXPANSION OF REGIONAL CYBER WHICH IS A RECOGNIZED
METHOD FOR DEVELOPING TALENT AND MEETING THE SKILL NEEDS OF THE
INDUSTRY.CYBERSECURITY

11–1603.

(A) THERE TALENT INNOVATION FUND DEPARTMENT.IS A IN THE

(B) THE FUND PROGRAM.PURPOSE OF THE IS TO SUPPORT THE

(C) THE SECRETARY FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(D) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE AND THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(E) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) FUND;GRANTS AND DONATIONS TO THE

(3) ~~PRINCIPAL~~ ~~AND~~ ~~INTEREST~~ ~~PAYMENTS~~ ~~MADE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~ANY~~
~~PAY–IT–FORWARD~~ ~~FUND;~~~~PROGRAM~~ ~~MADE~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~

~~(4)~~ FUND;INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE AND

~~(5)~~ (4) ANY MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR THE
FUND.BENEFIT OF THE

(F) THE DEPARTMENT FUND TO:MAY USE THE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 421 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) GRANTS:PROVIDE

(I) ENTITIES, EMPLOYERS,TO INCLUDING INSTITUTIONS OF
EDUCATION, ORGANIZATIONS, AGENCIES,HIGHER TAX EXEMPT PUBLIC LOCAL
BOARDS,WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT AND REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP
SPONSORS, STATE;AND RESIDENTS OF THE AND

(II) SERVICES,FOR COSTS INCLUDING SUPPORT SUBSIDIZED
WAGES, GRANTEES’ COSTS, TRAINING;ADMINISTRATIVE AND

(2) PROVIDE MATCHING FUNDS TO SECURE DONATIONS OR GRANTS
FUND;TO THE

(3) PROGRAMPROVIDE FUNDING FOR THE AND OTHER TALENT
MECHANISMS, ~~PAY–IT–FORWARD~~ ~~PROGRAM,~~FINANCE ~~SUCH~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ APPROVED BY THE
DIVISION BOARD;AND THE AND

(4) ADMINISTRATIVE, ACTUARIAL, LEGAL,PAY EXPENSES FOR AND
PROGRAM.TECHNICAL SERVICES FOR THE

(G) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(H) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

(I) MONEY FUNDEXPENDED FROM THE FOR TALENT INNOVATION FUND
PROGRAMS IS SUPPLEMENTAL TO AND IS NOT INTENDED TO TAKE THE PLACE OF
FUNDING THAT OTHERWISE WOULD BE APPROPRIATED FOR WORKFORCE
PROGRAMS.DEVELOPMENT

11–1604.

(A) THE DEPARTMENT MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS
SUBTITLE.

(B) ON JANUARY 1 YEAR, 2025,OR BEFORE EACH BEGINNING IN THE
DEPARTMENT GOVERNOR AND, §SHALL REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, PRESIDENT SENATEOF THE THE OF THE

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 421

SPEAKER HOUSE DELEGATES PROGRAMAND THE OF THE OF ON ACTIVITIES AND
FUND.USE OF THE

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]189. the Teacher Retention and Development Fund;

Fund;190. the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant AND

191. TALENT INNOVATION FUND.THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 5 –