PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 341

Chapter 341

(House Bill 1103)

AN ACT concerning

Miriam Kelty Aging and Senior Social Connection Hub and Spoke Pilot
Program

FOR the purpose of establishing the Miriam Kelty Aging and Senior Social Connection Hub
and Spoke Pilot Program in the Maryland Department of Aging; requiring the
Montgomery County Village Consortium to establish a certain plan and submit
certain reports; and generally relating to the Miriam Kelty Aging and Senior Social
Connection Hub and Spoke Pilot Program.

BY adding to
Article – Human Services
Section 10–1401 through 10–1405 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 14. Miriam
Kelty Aging and Senior Social Connection Hub and Spoke Pilot Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Human Services

SUBTITLE 14. MIRIAM KELTY AGING SENIOR SOCIAL CONNECTION HUBAND AND
SPOKE PILOT PROGRAM.

10–1401.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “PILOT PROGRAM” MIRIAM KELTY AGING SENIORMEANS THE AND
SOCIAL CONNECTION HUB SPOKE PILOT PROGRAM.AND

(C) “VILLAGE” LOCAL, VOLUNTEER–LEDMEANS ORGANIZATIONS THAT AIM
PLACE, BY:TO SUPPORT COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO CHOOSE TO AGE IN INCLUDING

(1) FOSTERING SOCIAL CONNECTIONS THROUGH ACTIVITIES AND
EVENTS; AND

(2) COORDINATING VOLUNTEER HELP AT HOME USING THE
NEIGHBOR–HELPING–NEIGHBOR MODEL.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 341 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

10–1402.

(A) THERE MIRIAM KELTY AGING SENIOR SOCIAL CONNECTIONIS A AND
HUB SPOKE PILOT PROGRAM DEPARTMENT.AND IN THE

(B) THE PILOT PROGRAM TO:PURPOSE OF THE IS

(1) LEARN, TEST, AND DEVELOP BEST PRACTICES USING A HUB AND
ADMINISTRATION;SPOKE MODEL FOR VILLAGE

(2) CENTRALIZE ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS AND RELIEVE THE BURDEN
VOLUNTEERS;ON

(3) BETTER COORDINATE RESOURCES AND OPERATIONS TO
PROVIDED;MAXIMIZE THE REACH OF SERVICES

(4) VILLAGES;HELP DEVELOP NEW AND DEVELOPING OR EMERGING
AND

(5) BUILD SOCIAL CONNECTION AND COMBAT LONELINESS FOR
PLACE.SENIORS AGING IN

(C) THE PILOT PROGRAMGOAL OF THE IS TO SUPPORT VILLAGES THAT
SEEK TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OPERATIONAL PROFICIENCIES AND EXISTING
SYSTEMS, KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND RESOURCES TO EXPAND SERVICES TO MORE
REGION.RESIDENTS IN THE GEOGRAPHIC

(D) THE DEPARTMENT PILOT PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) THE DEPARTMENT MONTGOMERY COUNTYSHALL SELECT THE
VILLAGE CONSORTIUM PILOT PROGRAM 3–YEARTO IMPLEMENT THE FOR A
PERIOD.

10–1403.

(A) THE MONTGOMERY COUNTY VILLAGE CONSORTIUM SHALL:

(1) 3–YEARESTABLISH A STRATEGIC PLAN FOR THE
PILOT PROGRAM;IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AND

(2) DEPARTMENT YEAR,SUBMIT TO THE A REPORT EACH USING
AVAILABLE,QUANTITATIVE DATA IF REGARDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
(1) SUBSECTION.PLAN REQUIRED UNDER ITEM OF THIS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 341

(B) THE (A)(2)REPORT REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION
SHALL INCLUDE A DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRESS OF THE PLAN IN THE
AREAS:FOLLOWING

(1) ADMINISTRATION, HIRING, MEMBERSHIP,INCLUDING BOARD AND
RESPONSIBILITIES;BOARD

(2) PROVIDED;DIRECT SERVICES

(3) COMMUNICATIONS;

(4) OPERATIONS;

(5) PROGRAMMING;

(6) FUND–RAISING;

(7) OUTREACH;

(8) FINANCIALS, INCLUDING AN ACCOUNTING OF THE FUNDS
§ 10–1404 SUBTITLE;REQUIRED TO BE APPROPRIATED UNDER OF THIS AND

(9) CLIENT SATISFACTION AMONG LEADERS OF VILLAGES THAT
PILOT PROGRAM.PARTICIPATE IN THE

10–1404.

(A) FOR 2026 2028, GOVERNORFISCAL YEARS THROUGH THE SHALL
$80,000INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF FOR THE
PILOT PROGRAM.

(B) THE (A)FUNDS APPROPRIATED UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION
DEPARTMENT MONTGOMERY COUNTYSHALL BE TRANSFERRED BY THE TO THE
VILLAGE CONSORTIUM FOR:TO BE USED

(1) MANAGER;EMPLOYING AN OPERATIONS

(2) FUND–RAISING;

(3) OUTREACH;MARKETING AND AND

(4) PROGRAMMING.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 341 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

10–1405.

ON SEPTEMBER 1, 2027, MONTGOMERY COUNTY VILLAGEOR BEFORE THE
CONSORTIUM DEPARTMENTSHALL REPORT TO THE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF
SUBTITLE, INCLUDING:THIS

(1) COMPREHENSIVE BEST PRACTICES FOR CREATING AND
MODEL, INCLUDING:OPERATING A HUB AND SPOKE

(I) HUB;HOW TO CREATE A

(II) ESTABLISHING THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
MONTGOMERY COUNTY VILLAGE CONSORTIUM AS THE HUB AND THE VILLAGES AS
SPOKES;THE

(III) ESTABLISHING THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE HUB AND
SPOKES;THE

(IV) DESCRIBING THE POPULATION THAT WILL BE SERVED BY A
HUB;

(V) DIRECTORS;HOW TO ESTABLISH A BOARD OF

(VI) HOW TO IDENTIFY RESOURCES WITHIN EACH HUB
COMMUNITY, TIME, SKILLS, CAPABILITIES;INCLUDING AND

(VII) HUB,HOW TO IDENTIFY THE CAPACITY OF EACH INCLUDING
CAPACITY;GEOGRAPHIC AND POPULATION

(VIII) PROVIDED;DESCRIBING WHICH SERVICES CAN BE

(IX) VOLUNTEERS;HOW TO TRAIN

(X) HOW TO ADDRESS OVERLAPPING NEEDS OF MULTIPLE
VILLAGES’ COMMUNITIES, INCLUDING:UNIQUE SENIOR

1. ACTIVITIES;SUPPORT AND SOCIAL

2. WELLNESS;HEALTH AND AND

3. EDUCATION; AND

(XI) VILLAGES, INCLUDING:HOW TO WORK WITH

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 341

1. CAPACITY;HOW TO INCREASE VILLAGE

2. VILLAGES;HOW TO RECRUIT NEW AND

3. HOW TO EXPAND OFFERINGS OF DEVELOPING
VILLAGES; AND

(2) RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING HOW TO SUPPORT INTERESTED
DIVERSE AND UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF
VILLAGES.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 4 years and, at the end of June 30, 2028,
this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and
of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 5 –