PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

Chapter 600

(House Bill 1168)

AN ACT concerning

Human Remains – Alkaline Hydrolysis and Natural Organic Reduction
(Green Death Care Options Act)

FOR the purpose of establishing a regulatory system for reduction operators and reduction
facilities; establishing requirements and prohibitions related to the performance of
alkaline hydrolysis and natural organic reduction and the disposition of hydrolyzed
or soil remains by certain facilities; requiring the Director of the Office of Cemetery
Oversight and the Director of the State Board of Morticians and Funeral Directors
to adopt regulations governing the performance of natural organic reduction;
prohibiting a person from using or disposing of soil remains produced by natural
organic reduction in a certain manner, including by using the soil to grow food for
consumption by humans or livestock; and generally relating to alkaline hydrolysis
and natural organic reduction.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 5–101, 5–204(a), (b), and (k), 5–301, 5–302, 5–303, 5–306(a), 5–308, 5–310(a)
and (b), 5–401, 5–402, 5–403, 5–803, 5–902, and 5–903
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Business Regulation
Section 5–901(d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 5–502, 5–503, 5–504, 5–508, 5–511(a) and (b), 5–512, 5–513, and 5–514
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health Occupations
Section 7–101(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Health Occupations
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Section 7–101(a–1), (l–1), (s–1), (v–1), ~~and~~ (v–2), and (v–3)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health Occupations
Section 7–101(c–1), (h), (i), (l), (t), and (u), 7–102, 7–205(c), 7–406, and 7–505
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Business Regulation

5–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(B) “ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS” MEANS THE PROCESS OF REDUCING HUMAN
WATER, CHEMICALS,REMAINS USING ALKALINE AND HEAT INSIDE A WATERTIGHT
DECOMPOSITION.VESSEL TO ACCELERATE

(C) “AUTHORIZING AGENT” § 5–508HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
HEALTH – GENERAL ARTICLE.

[(b)] (D) (1) “Burial goods” means goods that are used in connection with
burial.

(2) “Burial goods” includes:

(i) a casket;

(ii) a grave liner;

(iii) a memorial;

(iv) a monument;

(v) a scroll;

(vi) an urn;

(vii) a vase; and

(viii) a vault.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

[(c)] (E) “Burial goods business” means a business that provides burial goods.

[(d)] (F) (1) “Cemetery” means land used or to be used for interment.

(2) “Cemetery” includes a structure used or to be used for interment.

[(e)] (G) [process“Cremation” means the of reducing human remains to bone
fragments through intense heat and evaporation, including any mechanical or thermal
process] INCINERATION.DISPOSITION OF A DEAD HUMAN BODY BY MEANS OF

[(f)] (H) “Crematory” means a building, portion of a building, or structure that
houses the necessary appliances and facilities for cremation HYDROLYSIS.OR ALKALINE

[(g)] (I) “Director” means the Director of the Office of Cemetery Oversight.

[(h)] (J) “Engage in the operation of a cemetery” means owning, controlling, or
managing a cemetery, including performing activities necessary for:

(1) the establishment, improvement, care, preservation, or embellishment
of a cemetery;

(2) interment; and

(3) the providing of burial space or burial goods.

[(i)] (K) (1) “Engage in the operation of a crematory” means controlling or
managing a crematory.

(2) “Engage in the operation of a crematory” does not include:

(i) the practice of funeral direction or the practice of mortuary
science; or

(ii) 1. assistance in making decisions and filling out forms that
are not directly related to cremation;

2. obtaining vital statistics, signatures, and other
information necessary to complete a death certificate;

3. transportation of a body to the place of disposition; or

4. any other services regarding the disposition of a body that
are not directly related to cremation.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(L) (1) “ENGAGE FACILITY”IN THE OPERATION OF A REDUCTION MEANS
FACILITY.CONTROLLING OR MANAGING A REDUCTION

(2) “ENGAGE FACILITY”IN THE OPERATION OF A REDUCTION DOES
INCLUDE:NOT

(I) THE PRACTICE OF FUNERAL DIRECTION OR THE PRACTICE
SCIENCE;OF MORTUARY OR

(II) 1. ASSISTANCE IN MAKING DECISIONS AND FILLING OUT
REDUCTION;FORMS THAT ARE NOT DIRECTLY RELATED TO NATURAL ORGANIC

2. STATISTICS, SIGNATURES,OBTAINING VITAL AND
CERTIFICATE;OTHER INFORMATION NECESSARY TO COMPLETE A DEATH

3. TRANSPORTATION OF A BODY TO THE PLACE OF
DISPOSITION; OR

4. ANY OTHER SERVICES REGARDING THE DISPOSITION
REDUCTION.OF A BODY THAT ARE NOT DIRECTLY RELATED TO NATURAL ORGANIC

[(j)] (M) “Funeral establishment” means a building, structure, or premises from
which the business of funeral directing or embalming is conducted.

[(k)] (N) (1) “Human remains” means:

(i) the body of a deceased person; or

(ii) a part of a body or limb that has been removed from a living
person.

(2) “Human remains” includes the body or part of a body or limb in any
state of decomposition.

(3) “HUMAN REMAINS” DOES NOT INCLUDE SOIL REMAINS
REDUCTION.PRODUCED AFTER THE COMPLETION OF NATURAL ORGANIC

(O) “HYDROLYZED REMAINS” MEANS THE BONE FRAGMENTS PRODUCED BY
HYDROLYSIS.THE COMPLETION OF ALKALINE

[(l)] (P) “Interment” means all final disposition of human remains or pet
remains, including:

(1) earth burial;

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

(2) mausoleum entombment; and

(3) niche or columbarium interment.

(Q) “NATURAL REDUCTION”ORGANIC MEANS THE CONTAINED
SOIL.ACCELERATED CONVERSION OF HUMAN REMAINS INTO

[(m)] (R) “Office” means the Office of Cemetery Oversight.

[(n)] (S) “Permit” means a permit issued by the Director to allow a partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation to operate a business through which a registrant
may:

(1) engage in the operation of a cemetery or crematory; or

(2) provide burial goods.

[(o)] (T) (1) “Pet remains” means the body of a deceased animal that was kept
as a pet.

(2) “Pet remains” includes the body of a pet or a part of a pet’s body in any
state of decomposition or the body of a pet after having been cremated.

[(p)] (U) (1) “Preneed goods” means burial goods that are sold before the
buyer’s death.

(2) “Preneed goods” does not include burial space.

[(q)] (V) “Provide burial goods” means a retail transaction:

(1) to erect, service, or inscribe burial memorials; or

(2) to sell burial goods.

(W) “REDUCTION FACILITY” BUILDING, BUILDING,MEANS A PORTION OF A
APPLIANCES, CONTAINERS,OR STRUCTURE THAT HOUSES THE NECESSARY AND
REDUCTION.FACILITIES FOR PERFORMING NATURAL ORGANIC

[(r)] (X) “Registered cemeterian” means an individual registered to operate a
cemetery as a sole proprietor or on behalf of a sole proprietor or of a permit holder.

[(s)] (Y) “Registered crematory operator” means an individual registered to
operate a crematory as a sole proprietor or on behalf of a sole proprietor or permit holder.

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(Z) “REGISTERED OPERATOR”REDUCTION MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL
REGISTERED TO OPERATE A REDUCTION FACILITY AS A SOLE PROPRIETOR OR ON
HOLDER.BEHALF OF A SOLE PROPRIETOR OR A PERMIT

[(t)] (AA) “Registered seller” means an individual registered to provide burial
goods as a sole proprietor or on behalf of a sole proprietor or of a permit holder.

[(u)] (BB) “Registration” means a registration issued by the Director authorizing
an individual to operate a cemetery, to operate a crematory, TO OPERATE A REDUCTION
FACILITY, or to provide burial goods.

[(v)] (CC) “Responsible party” means a sole proprietor or the individual
designated by a partnership, limited liability company, or corporation to be responsible for
FACILITY,the operations of a cemetery, crematory, or burial goods business.REDUCTION

(DD) “SOIL REMAINS” MEANS THE SOIL PRODUCED AT FINAL DISPOSITION OF
A DEAD HUMAN BODY AT A REDUCTION FACILITY BY COMPLETION OF NATURAL
REDUCTION.ORGANIC

5–204.

(a) (1) With the advice of the Advisory Council and after consultation with
representatives of the cemetery industry, the Director shall adopt:

(i) rules and regulations to carry out this title; and

[or],(ii) a code of ethics for engaging in the operation of a cemetery
crematory, or providing burial goods.OR REDUCTION FACILITY

(2) In conjunction with the State Board of Morticians and Funeral
Directors, the Director shall:

(i) establish a process for regulating crematories AND REDUCTION
that provides for:FACILITIES

1. registration of crematory operators AND REDUCTION
or issuance of permits for operating crematoriesFACILITY OPERATORS AND REDUCTION
FACILITIES, and renewal;

2. applications, including certification of ownership and
HYDROLYSIS, cremation,identification of individuals who will perform ALKALINE OR
REDUCTION;NATURAL ORGANIC

3. registration and permit fees;

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

4. inspections and oversight;

5. grounds for discipline and penalties; and

6. complaints and hearings; and

(ii) adopt regulations that are identical to regulations adopted by the
State Board of Morticians and Funeral Directors to:

1. implement item (i) of this paragraph; and

2. ensure public health and safety.

(3) THE DIRECTOR THAT:SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS

(I) REQUIRE A ~~LICENSED~~ ~~FUNERAL~~ ~~ESTABLISHMENT~~ ~~OR~~
REGISTERED REDUCTION OPERATOR TO NOTIFY THE AUTHORIZING AGENT IN
WRITING AND BEFORE INITIATING NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION THAT A PERSON
~~IS~~ ~~PROHIBITED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~LAW~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~USING~~ WHO USES OR ~~DISPOSING~~ DISPOSES OF SOIL
§ 5–514 HEALTH – GENERAL ARTICLE;REMAINS ~~UNDER~~ IS IN VIOLATION OF OF THE

(II) REQUIRE A REDUCTION FACILITY TO MONITOR AND
RECORD WRITTEN VERIFICATION THAT THE TEMPERATURE DURING EACH
INSTANCE OF A NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION PROCESS ATTAINS A SPECIFIED
MINIMUM INTERNAL EQUIPMENT TEMPERATURE FOR A SPECIFIED MINIMUM
TIME;PERIOD OF

(III) ESTABLISH APPROPRIATE STANDARDS FOR TRAINING AND
OPERATORS;EXPERIENCE FOR THE REGISTRATION OF REDUCTION

(IV) PROHIBIT THE USE OF NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION IN
KNOWN,ANY INSTANCE IN WHICH THE HUMAN REMAINS ARE OR REASONABLY
SUSPECTED, INFECTION, DISEASE,TO BE EMBALMED OR TO HAVE AN OR
BIOLOGICAL CONDITION THAT RENDERS THE PROCESS OF NATURAL ORGANIC
UNSAFE,REDUCTION OR THE RESULTING SOIL REMAINS UNREASONABLY
INCLUDING:

1. CREUTZFELDT–JAKOB DISEASE OR OTHER PRION
DISEASE;

2. EBOLA INFECTION;VIRUS

3. MYCOBACTERIUM INFECTION;TUBERCULOSIS

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

4. THE PRESENCE OF DIAGNOSTIC OR THERAPEUTIC
RADIOISOTOPES; OR

5. INFECTION, DISEASE,ANY OTHER OR BIOLOGICAL
DIRECTORCONDITION IDENTIFIED BY THE BASED ON THE REASONABLE
FEDERAL, STATE, AUTHORITY;RECOMMENDATION OF A OR LOCAL HEALTH

(V) ESTABLISH A MANDATORY CONTAMINATION TESTING
PROGRAM FOR REDUCTION FACILITIES TO ENSURE THE SAFETY OF SOIL REMAINS
PRODUCED, ELEMENTS:INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING MINIMUM PROGRAM

1. COLLECTING ROUTINE MATERIAL SAMPLES FROM
USING:SOIL REMAINS FOR ANALYSIS

A. METHODOLOGY;A RELIABLE SAMPLING AND

B. SAMPLING,AN APPROPRIATE FREQUENCY OF AS
U.S. COMPOSTING COUNCILRECOMMENDED OR APPROVED BY THE OR ANOTHER
AUTHORITY;RELIABLE SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY

2. RECORDING AND RETAINING THE RESULTS OF AN
ANALYSIS OF SAMPLES FROM THE SOIL REMAINS CONDUCTED BY AN INDEPENDENT
THIRD–PARTY LABORATORY TO IDENTIFY THE PRESENCE OF HEAVY METALS OR
MICROBIAL PATHOGENS ACCORDING TO THE APPROPRIATE CONTAMINATION
U.S. ENVIRONMENTALPARAMETERS FOR BIOSOLIDS SPECIFIED BY THE
PROTECTION AGENCY TITLE 40 C.F.R. PART 503, CHAPTER I,UNDER
SUBCHAPTER O;

3. CONDUCTING AN ANALYSIS FOR EACH PRODUCTION
0.01OF SOIL REMAINS TO ENSURE THAT THE SOIL REMAINS CONTAIN LESS THAN
MG/KG CONTAMINANTS,DRY WEIGHT OF SPECIFIC PHYSICAL WHICH MAY INCLUDE
BONE, FILLINGS, IMPLANTS;INTACT DENTAL AND MEDICAL

4. ENSURING THAT NO SOIL REMAINS ARE RELEASED
UNTIL THE SOIL REMAINS COMPLY WITH EACH OF THE APPLICABLE
PARAMETERS;CONTAMINATION TESTING AND

5. PERIODIC REPORTING OF TESTING RESULTS TO
STATEAPPROPRIATE AND LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES THAT HAVE REQUESTED
RESULTS;THE AND

(VI) PROHIBITION, RULE,ESTABLISH ANY OTHER REASONABLE
DIRECTOROR REQUIREMENT THE DETERMINES IS NECESSARY TO PROTECT THE

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY DURING THE PROCESS OF NATURAL ORGANIC
REDUCTION.

(b) Upon receipt of a written complaint, or at the discretion of the Director, the
Director or the Director’s designee may conduct an investigation and an inspection of the
records and site of a registered cemeterian, registered crematory operator, REGISTERED
OPERATOR, registered seller, permit holder, or any other person subject toREDUCTION
the registration or permit provisions of this title.

(k) In conjunction with the State Board of Morticians and the Division of
Consumer Protection of the Office of the Attorney General, the Director shall publish a
consumer information pamphlet that describes:

[and](1) the rights of consumers in the purchase of funeral, cemetery,
services,crematory goods and REDUCTION; andAND NATURAL ORGANIC

(2) any other information that the Director considers reasonably necessary
to aid consumers.

5–301.

An individual shall register with the Office before:

[or], crematory,(1) engaging in the operation of a cemetery OR
in this State; orREDUCTION FACILITY

(2) providing burial goods in this State.

5–302.

(a) In order to register, an applicant shall meet the requirements of this section.

(b) The applicant must be at least 18 years old.

(c) The applicant must be of good character and reputation.

(d) The applicant must be affiliated with a cemetery, crematory, REDUCTION
FACILITY, or burial goods business operated by a registrant or permit holder.

FACILITY,(e) The cemetery, crematory, or burial goods businessREDUCTION
with which the applicant is affiliated must be financially stable in accordance with § 5–304
of this subtitle.

5–303.

(a) An applicant shall register by:
– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) submitting to the Director an application on the form that the Director
provides; and

(2) paying a nonrefundable application fee set by the Director.

(b) The application shall state:

(1) the name, date of birth, and residential address of the applicant;

(2) the name and fixed address of the affiliated cemetery, crematory, or
burial goods business;

FACILITY,(3) whether the cemetery, crematory, or burialREDUCTION
goods business with which the applicant is affiliated is owned or controlled by a sole
proprietor, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation;

(4) if the applicant is designated as the responsible party, the name and
residential address of each employee who sells burial space, goods, or services to the public
for the business while engaging in the operation of a cemetery, crematory, REDUCTION
FACILITY, or burial goods business; and

(5) any other reasonable information that the Director determines is
necessary to carry out this title.

5–306.

(a) While a registration is in effect, it authorizes the registrant to engage in the
FACILITY,operation of a cemetery, crematory, or burial goods business.REDUCTION

5–308.

Within 1 week after the effective date of the change, the applicant designated as the
responsible party or the registered responsible party shall submit to the Director an
application form that shows a change in the:

FACILITY,(1) cemetery, crematory, or burial goods businessREDUCTION
with which a registrant is affiliated;

(2) individual designated as the responsible party;

(3) employees of the business who engage in the sale of burial space, goods,
or services or cremation to the public;

(4) officers, directors, members, or agents of the permit holder; or

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

(5) name or address of the registrant or permit holder.

5–310.

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 5–312 of this subtitle, the Director may
deny a registration or permit to an applicant, reprimand a person subject to the registration
or permit provisions of this title, or suspend or revoke a registration or permit if an
applicant, registrant, or permit holder, or an agent, employee, officer, director, or partner
of the applicant, registrant, or permit holder:

(1) fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a registration
or permit;

(2) fraudulently or deceptively uses a registration or permit;

(3) under the laws of the United States or of any state, is convicted of a:

(i) felony; or

(ii) misdemeanor that is directly related to the fitness and
qualifications of the applicant, registrant, or permit holder to own or operate a cemetery
[or], crematory, or provide burial goods;OR REDUCTION FACILITY

(4) fails to provide or misrepresents any information required to be
provided under this title;

(5) violates this title;

(6) violates the code of ethics adopted by the Director;

(7) violates a regulation adopted under this title;

(8) fails to provide reasonable and adequate supervision of the operation of
[or], crematory,the cemetery or the provision of burial goodsOR REDUCTION FACILITY
by agents, employees, officers, directors, or partners affiliated with a cemetery, crematory,
FACILITY, or burial goods business;REDUCTION

(9) refuses to allow an inspection required by this title;

(10) fails to comply with an order of the Director;

(11) fails to comply with any terms of settlement under a binding arbitration
agreement;

(12) is found guilty by a court in this State of violating an unfair or deceptive
trade practices provision under Title 13 of the Commercial Law Article; or

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(13) fails to comply with § 5–513 of the Health – General Article.

(b) (1) If a person is charged with a violation of this title that could result in
suspension or revocation of a registration or permit, the Director may seek an immediate
restraining order in a circuit court in this State to prohibit the person from engaging in the
FACILITY,operation of any cemetery, crematory, or burial goods business.REDUCTION

(2) The restraining order is in effect until:

(i) the court lifts the order; or

(ii) the charges are adjudicated or dismissed.

5–401.

(a) Subject to the provisions of this section, a registered cemeterian, registered
OPERATOR,crematory operator, or registered seller mayREGISTERED REDUCTION
FACILITY,engage in the operation of a cemetery, crematory, or burial goodsREDUCTION
business as a sole proprietor or through:

(1) a corporation as an officer, director, employee, or agent of the
corporation;

(2) a limited liability company as a member, employee, or agent of the
limited liability company; or

(3) a partnership as a partner, employee, or agent of the partnership.

(b) Subject to the provisions of this title, a corporation, limited liability company,
or partnership may engage in the operation of a cemetery, crematory, REDUCTION
FACILITY, or burial goods business through a registered cemeterian, registered crematory
OPERATOR,operator, or registered seller.REGISTERED REDUCTION

(c) (1) A registered cemeterian who engages in the operation of a cemetery
through a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership under this title is subject
to all of the provisions of this title that relate to engaging in the operation of a cemetery.

(2) A registered crematory operator who engages in the operation of a
crematory through a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership under this title
is subject to all of the provisions of this title that relate to engaging in the operation of a
crematory.

(3) A REGISTERED REDUCTION OPERATOR WHO ENGAGES IN THE
CORPORATION,OPERATION OF A REDUCTION FACILITY THROUGH A LIMITED

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

COMPANY,LIABILITY OR PARTNERSHIP UNDER THIS TITLE IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE
PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE THAT RELATE TO ENGAGING IN THE OPERATION OF A
FACILITY.REDUCTION

[(3)] (4) A registered seller who engages in the operation of a burial goods
business through a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership under this title is
subject to all of the provisions of this title that relate to providing burial goods services.

(d) (1) A corporation, limited liability company, or partnership that engages in
FACILITY,the operation of a cemetery, crematory, or burial goods businessREDUCTION
under this title is not, by its compliance with this title, relieved of any responsibility that
the corporation, limited liability company, or partnership may have for an act or an
omission by its officer, director, member, partner, employee, or agent.

(2) An individual who engages in the operation of a cemetery, crematory,
FACILITY, or burial goods business through a corporation, limited liabilityREDUCTION
company, or partnership is not, by reason of the individual’s employment or other
relationship with the corporation, limited liability company, or partnership, relieved of any
individual responsibility that the individual may have regarding that practice.

5–402.

A corporation, limited liability company, or partnership shall obtain a permit issued
by the Director, before the corporation, limited liability company, or partnership may
FACILITY,engage in the operation of a cemetery, crematory, or burial goodsREDUCTION
business in the State.

5–403.

To qualify for a permit, a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership shall:

(1) designate a separate registered cemeterian, registered crematory
OPERATOR,operator, or registered seller as the responsibleREGISTERED REDUCTION
FACILITY,party for the operations of each affiliated cemetery, crematory, orREDUCTION
burial goods business;

(2) provide the name and business address of each affiliated cemetery,
FACILITY,crematory, or burial goods business;REDUCTION

(3) provide a list of the officers, directors, members, partners, agents, and
employees of the entity applying for the permit; and

(4) comply with §§ 5–303(b)(4) and 5–304 of this title.

5–803.

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) (1) In this section the following words have the meanings indicated.

(2) “Eligible dependent” means a veteran’s spouse, a veteran’s unmarried
child under the age of 21 years, or a veteran’s unmarried adult child who before the age of
21 became permanently incapable of self–support because of physical or mental disability.

(3) (i) “Identifying information” means data required by a veterans
service organization to verify the eligibility of a veteran or an eligible dependent for burial
in a national or state veterans cemetery.

(ii) “Identifying information” includes name, service number, Social
Security number, date of birth, date of death, place of birth, and copy of the death
certificate.

(4) “Veteran” has the meaning stated in § 9–901 of the State Government
Article.

(5) “Veterans service organization” means an association or other entity
organized for the benefit of veterans that has been recognized by the U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs or chartered by Congress and any employee or representative of the
association or entity.

(1)(b) If a licensed funeral establishment or a crematory is in possession of
cremated human remains that have been unclaimed for 90OR HYDROLYZED REMAINS
days or more, the licensed funeral establishment or holder of the permit for the business of
operating a crematory shall provide identifying information of the unclaimed cremains OR
to a veterans service organization in order for the veteransHYDROLYZED REMAINS
service organization to determine if the unclaimed cremains OR HYDROLYZED REMAINS
are those of a veteran or an eligible dependent.

(2) (I) SUBPARAGRAPH (II) OF THIS PARAGRAPH DOES NOT APPLY
IF:

1. OTHERWISE;AN AUTHORIZING AGENT DIRECTS OR

2. A ~~LICENSED~~ ~~FUNERAL~~ ~~ESTABLISHMENT~~ ~~OR~~
REDUCTION FACILITY REASONABLY CONCLUDES BASED ON THE IDENTIFYING
INFORMATION OR OTHER EVIDENCE THAT A DECEDENT DOES NOT QUALIFY FOR
STATUS.DISPOSITION BENEFITS ASSOCIATED WITH VETERANS

(II) A ~~LICENSED~~ ~~FUNERAL~~ ~~ESTABLISHMENT~~ ~~OR~~ REDUCTION
FACILITY IN POSSESSION OF HUMAN REMAINS THAT ARE BEING PROCESSED BY
NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION SHALL PROVIDE IDENTIFYING INFORMATION TO A
5VETERANS SERVICE ORGANIZATION WITHIN BUSINESS DAYS AFTER NATURAL

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

ORGANIC REDUCTION IS INITIATED TO DETERMINE IF THE SOIL REMAINS ARE
DEPENDENT.THOSE OF A VETERAN OR AN ELIGIBLE

(c) Within 45 days after receipt of the information required by subsection (b) of
this section, the veterans service organization shall notify the licensed funeral
[or], holder,establishment permit FACILITY:OR REDUCTION

cremains, REMAINS,(1) whether the HYDROLYZED OR SOIL REMAINS
are those of a veteran or an eligible dependent; and

(2) if so, whether the veteran or eligible dependent is eligible for burial in
a veterans cemetery.

(d) If the unclaimed cremains are those of a veteranOR HYDROLYZED REMAINS
or an eligible dependent, the licensed funeral establishment or permit holder may transfer
the cremains to a veterans service organization for the purpose of disposition of the
cremains REMAINS.OR HYDROLYZED

(E) IF THE UNCLAIMED SOIL REMAINS ARE THOSE OF A VETERAN OR AN
DEPENDENT,ELIGIBLE THE ~~LICENSED~~ ~~FUNERAL~~ ~~ESTABLISHMENT~~ ~~OR~~ REDUCTION
MAY:FACILITY

(1) 300TRANSFER A PORTION OF THE SOIL REMAINS NOT EXCEEDING
CUBIC INCHES IN VOLUME TO A VETERANS SERVICE ORGANIZATION THAT GRANTS
DISPOSITION;PERMISSION FOR THE PURPOSE OF AND

(2) OWNER,IF AUTHORIZED BY THE CEMETERY OR TRANSFER THE
BALANCE OF SOIL REMAINS TO A CEMETERY OR THE OWNER OF A WOODLAND
FOREST CONSERVATION ACT.PROTECTED UNDER THE

5–901.

(D) EXCEPT TITLE,AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN THIS AN INDIVIDUAL MAY
FACILITY,NOT ENGAGE IN THE OPERATION OF A REDUCTION ATTEMPT TO ENGAGE
FACILITY,IN THE OPERATION OF A REDUCTION OR PROVIDE OR OFFER TO PROVIDE
NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION UNLESS THE INDIVIDUAL IS A REGISTERED
OPERATOR.REDUCTION

5–902.

Except for a registered cemeterian, registered crematory operator, REGISTERED
OPERATOR, or registered seller who operates a business as a sole proprietorREDUCTION
or a registrant employed by a sole proprietor, a person may not engage in the operation of
FACILITY,a cemetery, crematory, or burial goods business unless:REDUCTION

– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) the business is a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership;
and

(2) the corporation, limited liability company, or partnership holds a
permit issued under this title.

5–903.

Unless a person is authorized as a registrant, a person may not represent to the
public, by use of a title, including cemeterian, registered cemeterian, crematory operator,
OPERATOR,registered crematory operator, burial goods seller,REGISTERED REDUCTION
or registered seller, by description of services, methods, or procedures, or otherwise, that
[or], crematory,the person is authorized to engage in the operation of a cemetery OR
or provide burial goods.REDUCTION FACILITY

Article – Health – General

5–502.

(a) This section does not apply to the disposition of a body by a school of medicine
or dentistry.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person may not cremate OR
a body untilINITIATE ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS OR NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION OF
it has been identified by:

(1) The next of kin;

(2) A person who is authorized to arrange for final disposition of the body
under §§ 5–508 through 5–512 of this subtitle; or

(3) A medical examiner.

(c) If a person who is authorized to arrange for final disposition of a body is not
cremation,available to identify the body and authorize REDUCTION BY ALKALINE
HYDROLYSIS, REDUCTION, that person may delegate thatOR NATURAL ORGANIC
authority to another person by sending to the delegate an electronic communication that
contains the name, address, and relationship of the sender to the deceased and the name
and address of the individual to whom authority is delegated. Written authorization shall
follow by mail but does not take precedence over the electronic communication authorizing
the identification and cremation.

5–503.

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

A person may not cremate OR INITIATE ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS OR NATURAL
a body until at least 12 hours after death.ORGANIC REDUCTION OF

5–504.

A person may not transport a body to a crematory OR REDUCTION FACILITY
without using a cot and pouch or receptacle.

5–508.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(B) “ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS” § 5–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

[(b)] (C) “Authorizing agent” means the individual who has legal authority to
arrange for and make decisions regarding the final disposition of a dead human body,
cremation, HYDROLYSIS,including by REDUCTION.ALKALINE OR NATURAL ORGANIC

[(c)] (D) “Cremation” means the disposition of a dead human body by means of
incineration.

[(d)] (E) [is performed]“Crematory” a building in which cremations are HAS
§ 5–101 BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE

[(e)] (F) “Decedent” means a dead human being.

(G) “NATURAL REDUCTION” §ORGANIC HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
5–101 BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.OF THE

[(f)] (H) “Practitioner” means a person who is licensed by the State as a funeral
director, mortician, or surviving spouse licensee to practice mortuary science.

[(g)] (I) “Pre–need contract” means an agreement prior to the time of death
between a consumer and a practitioner to provide any goods and services regarding the
final disposition of a dead human body.

(J) “REDUCTION FACILITY” § 5–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

(K) “SOIL REMAINS” § 5–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

5–511.

– 17 –

PAGE 18
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) A practitioner and an operator of a crematory mayOR REDUCTION FACILITY
rely on the representations made by an authorizing agent and are not guarantors of the
reliability of those representations.

(b) A practitioner and an operator of a crematory haveOR REDUCTION FACILITY
no responsibility to contact or to independently investigate the existence of any next of kin
of the decedent.

5–512.

(a) A practitioner or an operator of a crematory mayOR REDUCTION FACILITY
not require an authorizing agent to obtain appointment as personal representative of the
decedent’s estate as a condition precedent to making final arrangements or authorizing
cremation, HYDROLYSIS, of a decedent.ALKALINE OR NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION

cremation, HYDROLYSIS,(b) A person may not authorize ALKALINE OR
when a decedent has left instructions in a document thatNATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION
the decedent does not wish to be cremated OR BE SUBJECT TO ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS
REDUCTION.OR NATURAL ORGANIC

5–513.

(a) On taking custody of the body of a decedent in accordance with all
[or], crematory,authorizations required by law, a funeral establishment OR REDUCTION
shall maintain the body in a manner that provides for complete coverage of theFACILITY
body and prevents leakage or spillage except during:

(1) Identification, embalming, or preparation of an unembalmed body for
final disposition;

(2) Restoration and dressing of a body in preparation for final disposition;
[and]

(3) IF APPLICABLE, PLACEMENT INSIDE A CONTAINED CHAMBER OR
VESSEL WITHOUT AN EXTERNAL VISUAL EXPOSURE DURING THE PROCESS OF
REDUCTION;ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS OR NATURAL ORGANIC AND

[(3)] (4) Viewing during a visitation or funeral service.

(b) If the unembalmed body of a decedent is to be stored for more than 48 hours
[or], crematory,before final disposition, a funeral establishment OR REDUCTION
shall maintain the body with refrigeration and at a temperature determined byFACILITY
regulation.

– 18 –

PAGE 19
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

[or], crematory,(c) (1) If a funeral establishment OR REDUCTION FACILITY
cannot secure the body of a decedent or cannot store the body as required in subsection (b)
[or],of this section due to an unforeseen circumstance, the funeral establishment
crematory, shall notify the State Board of Morticians andOR REDUCTION FACILITY
Funeral Directors or the Office of Cemetery Oversight and the person authorized to arrange
for the final disposition of the body under § 5–509 of this subtitle.

(2) The notification required under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall:

(i) Be made within 24 hours after the occurrence of the unforeseen
circumstance; and

(ii) Include the name and location of the facility where the body is
being transferred, the reason for the transfer, and the method of storage.

(d) The body of a decedent may not be embalmed or artificially preserved without:

(1) The express permission of the person authorized to arrange for the final
disposition of the body under § 5–509 of this subtitle; or

(2) A court order.

[or], crematory,(e) A funeral establishment shallOR REDUCTION FACILITY
store the body of a decedent until final disposition at:

(1) A funeral establishment licensed under Title 7 of the Health
Occupations Article;

(2) A crematory licensed under Title 7 of theOR REDUCTION FACILITY
Health Occupations Article;

(3) A crematory permitted under Title 5 of theOR REDUCTION FACILITY
Business Regulation Article; or

(4) Another facility that has passed an inspection with the State Board of
Morticians and Funeral Directors or the Office of Cemetery Oversight within the past 2
years.

FACILITY,(f) A funeral establishment, crematory, orREDUCTION
transportation service may not transport or store the body of a decedent together with
animal remains in the same confined space.

(g) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, while the body
[or], crematory,of a decedent is in the custody of a funeral establishment OR REDUCTION
in the State, the body may not be transported for preparation or storage to aFACILITY

– 19 –

PAGE 20
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

facility that is not within the jurisdiction of the State, licensed by the State Board of
Morticians and Funeral Directors, or permitted by the Office of Cemetery Oversight.

(2) The body of a decedent may be transported for preparation or storage
to a facility that is not within the jurisdiction of the State, licensed by the State Board of
Morticians and Funeral Directors, or permitted by the Office of Cemetery Oversight if:

(i) The facility has entered into a written agreement with the State
Board of Morticians and Funeral Directors or the Office of Cemetery Oversight to allow the
State to make unannounced inspections of the facility; and

(ii) The person authorized to arrange for the final disposition of the
body under § 5–509 of this subtitle:

1. Has given written permission for the body to be
transported to the facility; or

2. A. Has given oral permission for the body to be
transported to the facility; and

B. Within 36 hours after giving oral permission, provides
written verification of the oral permission.

5–514.

(a) An individual may not bury or dispose of a body except:

(1) In a family burial plot or other area allowed by a local ordinance;

(2) In a crematory;

(3) In a cemetery;

IN FACILITY;(4) A REDUCTION

(5) By donating the body to medical science; or

[(5)] (6) By removing the body to another state for final disposition in
accordance with the laws of the other state.

(B) A PERSON MAY NOT USE OR DISPOSE OF SOIL REMAINS PRODUCED BY
REDUCTION:NATURAL ORGANIC

(1) ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT THE PRIOR
OF:WRITTEN PERMISSION

– 20 –

PAGE 21
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

(I) THE PROPERTY;OWNER OF THE PUBLIC

(II) THE SURVIVING OWNERS OF PUBLIC RECORD OF THE
PROPERTY;PRIVATE OR

(III) IF THE DECEDENT WAS SOLE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY AT
DEATH, AGENT;THE AUTHORIZING

(2) BY USING THE SOIL REMAINS TO GROW FOOD FOR CONSUMPTION
LIVESTOCK;BY HUMANS OR

(3) BY SELLING OR RESELLING THE SOIL REMAINS TO A THIRD
PARTY; OR

(4) BY COMBINING OR INCORPORATING THE SOIL REMAINS INTO
COMPOST OFFERED FOR SALE TO CONSUMERS OR FOR COMMERCIAL OR
PURCHASERS.AGRICULTURAL

(C) UNLESS A FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT OR CEMETERY HAS OTHERWISE
WRITING,AGREED IN A REDUCTION FACILITY THAT PRODUCES SOIL REMAINS IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING FOR THE FINAL DISPOSITION AND DISPOSAL OF THE
SOIL REMAINS IN ACCORDANCE WITH WRITTEN DIRECTION GIVEN BY AN
AGENT.AUTHORIZING

(D) EXCEPT FOR ACTS OF GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR RECKLESS DISREGARD OF
(B) SECTION,THE PROHIBITIONS UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS A PRACTITIONER OR
FOR:REDUCTION FACILITY OPERATOR IS NOT LIABLE

(1) TRANSFERRING POSSESSION OF SOIL REMAINS AT A REDUCTION
FACILITY; OR

(2) DELIVERING SOIL REMAINS TO ANOTHER LOCATION ACCORDING
AGENT.TO THE WRITTEN DIRECTION PROVIDED BY AN AUTHORIZING

[(b)] (E) An individual who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and
on conviction is subject to imprisonment not exceeding 1 year or a fine not exceeding $5,000
or both.

Article – Health Occupations

7–101.

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

– 21 –

PAGE 22
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(A–1) “ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS” § 5–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

(c–1) “Authorizing agent” ~~means~~ ~~the~~ ~~individual~~ ~~who~~ ~~has~~ ~~legal~~ ~~authority~~ ~~to~~ ~~arrange~~
~~for~~ ~~and~~ ~~make~~ ~~decisions~~ ~~regarding~~ ~~the~~ ~~final~~ ~~disposition~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~dead~~ ~~human~~ ~~body,~~ ~~including~~ ~~by~~
~~cremation,~~ ~~HYDROLYSIS,~~~~ALKALINE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~NATURAL~~ ~~ORGANIC~~ ~~REDUCTION~~ HAS THE
§ 5–508 HEALTH – GENERAL ARTICLE.MEANING STATED IN OF THE

[the(h) “Cremation” means process of reducing human remains to bone
fragments through intense heat and evaporation, including any mechanical or thermal
process] INCINERATION.DISPOSITION OF A DEAD HUMAN BODY BY MEANS OF

(i) “Crematory” means a building, portion of a building, or structure that houses
the necessary appliances and facilities for cremation HYDROLYSIS.OR ALKALINE

(l) (1) “Human remains” means:

(i) The body of a deceased person; or

(ii) A part of a body or limb that has been removed from a living
person.

(2) “Human remains” includes the body or part of a body or limb in any
state of decomposition.

(3) “HUMAN REMAINS” DOES NOT INCLUDE SOIL REMAINS
REDUCTION.PRODUCED AFTER THE COMPLETION OF NATURAL ORGANIC

(L–1) “HYDROLYZED REMAINS” § 5–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

(S–1) “NATURAL REDUCTION” §ORGANIC HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
5–101 BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.OF THE

(t) (1) “Practice funeral direction” means:

(i) To operate a funeral establishment;

(ii) For compensation, to prepare a dead human body for disposition;
or

(iii) For compensation, to arrange for or make final disposition of a
dead human body.

– 22 –

PAGE 23
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

(2) “Practice funeral direction” does not include:

(i) For compensation, disinfecting or preserving a dead human body
or any of its parts by arterial or cavity injection or any other type of preservation; or

(ii) The business of operating a crematory OR REDUCTION
FACILITY.

(u) (1) “Practice mortuary science” means:

(i) To operate a funeral establishment;

(ii) For compensation, to prepare a dead human body for disposition;
or

(iii) For compensation, to arrange for or make final disposition of a
dead human body.

(2) “Practice mortuary science” includes:

(i) The practice of funeral direction; and

(ii) Disinfecting or preserving a dead human body or any of its parts
by arterial or cavity injection.

(3) “Practice mortuary science” does not include:

(i) The pickup, removal, or transportation of a dead human body, if
the unlicensed individual is acting under the direction of a licensed mortician or funeral
director; or

(ii) The business of operating a crematory OR REDUCTION
FACILITY.

(V–1) “REDUCTION FACILITY” § 5–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

(V–2) “REGISTERED OPERATOR” §REDUCTION HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
5–101 BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.OF THE

(V–3) “SOIL REMAINS” § 5–101HAS THE MEANING STATED IN OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

7–102.

– 23 –

PAGE 24
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) This title does not limit the right of an individual to practice a health
occupation that the individual is authorized to practice under this article.

(b) (1) In this subsection, “registrant or permit holder” means a person
regulated under Title 5 of the Business Regulation Article as a registered cemeterian,
OPERATOR, registered seller, or holder of a permit to operateREGISTERED REDUCTION
cemetery, FACILITY,a or burial goods business.REDUCTION

(2) This title does not apply to:

(i) The business of operating a cemetery, including the sale of
cemetery lots, grave sites, mausoleums, monuments, lawn crypts, or vaults;

(ii) The ownership of a crematory or theOR REDUCTION FACILITY
business of operating a crematory in which:OR REDUCTION FACILITY

1. A registrant or permit holder owns a greater percentage of
the crematory than a person licensed under this title;OR REDUCTION FACILITY

2. Ownership is equal between a registrant or permit holder
and a person licensed under this title; or

3. Neither a registrant, permit holder, or person licensed
under this title has an ownership interest in the crematory FACILITY; orOR REDUCTION

(iii) The ownership of a crematory or the business of operating a
crematory or incinerator at a licensed medical facility or educational institution.

7–205.

(c) In conjunction with the Office of Cemetery Oversight, the Board shall:

(1) Establish a process for regulating crematories AND REDUCTION
that provides for:FACILITIES

(i) Registration of crematory operators AND REDUCTION
or issuance of permits for operating crematoriesOPERATORS AND REDUCTION
FACILITIES, and renewal;

(ii) Applications, including certification of ownership and
cremation, HYDROLYSIS,identification of individuals who will perform ALKALINE OR
REDUCTION;NATURAL ORGANIC

(iii) Registration or permit fees;

– 24 –

PAGE 25
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

(iv) Inspections and oversight;

(v) Grounds for discipline and penalties; and

(vi) Complaints and hearings; and

(2) Adopt regulations that are identical to regulations adopted by the
Director of the Office of Cemetery Oversight to:

(i) Implement item (1) of this subsection; ~~and~~

safety;(ii) Ensure public health and AND

(III) MEET § 5–204(A)(3)THE REQUIREMENTS OF OF THE
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE.

7–406.

[of a](a) A licensee shall maintain a complete file cremationFOR EACH AND
EACH ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS OR NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION THAT IS INITIATED
that includes the signature of the next of kin, person identifying the body, or person
responsible for disposition, time of death, and the date and time of cremation OR THE TIME
THAT THE ALKALINE HYDROLYSIS OR NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION WAS
INITIATED.

(b) (1) (i) In this subsection the following words have the meanings
indicated.

(ii) “Eligible dependent” means a veteran’s spouse, a veteran’s
unmarried child under the age of 21 years, or a veteran’s unmarried adult child who before
the age of 21 became permanently incapable of self–support because of physical or mental
disability.

(iii) 1. “Identifying information” means data required by a
veterans service organization to verify the eligibility of a veteran or an eligible dependent
for burial in a national or state veterans cemetery.

2. “Identifying information” includes name, service number,
Social Security number, date of birth, date of death, place of birth, and copy of the death
certificate.

(iv) “Veteran” has the meaning stated in § 9–901 of the State
Government Article.

(v) “Veterans service organization” means an association or other
entity organized for the benefit of veterans that has been recognized by the U.S.
– 25 –

PAGE 26
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Department of Veterans Affairs or chartered by Congress and any employee or
representative of the association or entity.

(I) ~~[or],~~ crematory,(2) If a licensed funeral establishment a ~~OR~~ ~~A~~
is in possession of cremated human remains~~REDUCTION~~ ~~FACILITY~~ OR HYDROLYZED
that have been unclaimed for 90 days or more, the licensed funeral establishmentREMAINS
or holder of the permit for the business of operating a crematory shall provide identifying
information of the unclaimed cremains to a veterans serviceOR HYDROLYZED REMAINS
organization in order for the veterans service organization to determine if the unclaimed
cremains are those of a veteran or an eligible dependent.

(II) 1. SUBSUBPARAGRAPH 2 OF THIS SUBPARAGRAPH DOES
IF:NOT APPLY

A. AN OTHERWISE;AUTHORIZING AGENT DIRECTS OR

B. A ~~LICENSED~~ ~~FUNERAL~~ ~~ESTABLISHMENT~~ ~~OR~~
REDUCTION FACILITY REASONABLY CONCLUDES BASED ON THE IDENTIFYING
INFORMATION OR OTHER EVIDENCE THAT A DECEDENT DOES NOT QUALIFY FOR
STATUS.DISPOSITION BENEFITS ASSOCIATED WITH VETERAN

2. A ~~LICENSED~~ ~~FUNERAL~~ ~~ESTABLISHMENT~~ ~~OR~~
REDUCTION FACILITY IN POSSESSION OF HUMAN REMAINS THAT ARE BEING
PROCESSED BY NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION SHALL PROVIDE IDENTIFYING
5INFORMATION TO A VETERANS SERVICE ORGANIZATION WITHIN BUSINESS DAYS
AFTER NATURAL ORGANIC REDUCTION IS INITIATED TO DETERMINE IF THE SOIL
DEPENDENT.REMAINS ARE THOSE OF A VETERAN OR AN ELIGIBLE

(3) Within 45 days after receipt of the information required under
paragraph (2) of this subsection, the veterans service organization shall notify the licensed
[or], holder,funeral establishment permit FACILITY:OR REDUCTION

cremains, REMAINS,(i) Whether the HYDROLYZED OR SOIL
are those of a veteran or an eligible dependent; andREMAINS

(ii) If so, whether the veteran or eligible dependent is eligible for
burial in a veterans cemetery.

(4) If the unclaimed cremains are those of aOR HYDROLYZED REMAINS
veteran or an eligible dependent, the licensed funeral establishment or permit holder may
transfer the cremains to a veterans service organization forOR HYDROLYZED REMAINS
the purpose of the appropriate disposition of the cremains REMAINS.OR HYDROLYZED

– 26 –

PAGE 27
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 600

(5) IF THE UNCLAIMED SOIL REMAINS ARE THOSE OF A VETERAN OR
DEPENDENT,ELIGIBLE THE ~~LICENSED~~ ~~FUNERAL~~ ~~ESTABLISHMENT~~ ~~OR~~ REDUCTION
MAY:FACILITY

(I) TRANSFER A PORTION OF THE SOIL REMAINS NOT
300EXCEEDING CUBIC INCHES IN VOLUME TO A VETERANS SERVICE ORGANIZATION
DISPOSITION;THAT GRANTS PERMISSION FOR THE PURPOSE OF AND

(II) IF AUTHORIZED, TRANSFER THE BALANCE OF THE SOIL
REMAINS TO A CEMETERY OR THE OWNER OF A WOODLAND PROTECTED UNDER THE
FOREST CONSERVATION ACT.

[(5)] (6) If a veterans service organization does not take possession of
unclaimed cremains OR HYDROLYZED REMAINS ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PORTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~UNCLAIMED~~ ~~SOIL~~
that qualify for a plot in a State veterans’ cemetery under § 9–906 of the State~~REMAINS~~
establishment,Government Article within 10 days after the licensed funeral ~~REDUCTION~~
~~FACILITY,~~ or permit holder receives the notification required under paragraph (3) of this
establishment, ~~FACILITY,~~subsection, the licensed funeral or permit holder~~REDUCTION~~
shall:

(i) Notify the Department of Veterans Affairs of the status of the
cremains, REMAINS, for the purposeOR HYDROLYZED ~~OR~~ ~~PORTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~SOIL~~ ~~REMAINS~~
cremains, REMAINS,of the appropriate disposition of the OR HYDROLYZED ~~OR~~ ~~PORTION~~
~~[and]~~~~REMAINS;~~~~OF~~ ~~SOIL~~

cremains, REMAINS,(ii) Transfer the OR HYDROLYZED ~~OR~~
to the Department of Veterans Affairs for the purpose of the~~PORTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~SOIL~~ ~~REMAINS~~
cremains, REMAINS,appropriate disposition of the OR HYDROLYZED ~~OR~~ ~~PORTION~~ ~~OF~~
~~REMAINS;~~ ~~AND.~~~~SOIL~~

(7) IF A VETERANS SERVICE ORGANIZATION DOES NOT TAKE
(5)(I)POSSESSION OF A PORTION OF UNCLAIMED SOIL REMAINS UNDER PARAGRAPH
STATE VETERANS’OF THIS SUBSECTION THAT QUALIFIES FOR A PLOT IN A
§ 9–906 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE 10CEMETERY UNDER OF THE WITHIN DAYS
AFTER THE REDUCTION FACILITY RECEIVES THE NOTIFICATION REQUIRED UNDER
(3) SUBSECTION, SHALL:PARAGRAPH OF THIS THE REDUCTION FACILITY

(I) NOTIFY DEPARTMENT VETERANS AFFAIRSTHE OF OF THE
STATUS OF THE SOIL REMAINS FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE APPROPRIATE
REMAINS;DISPOSITION OF THE PORTION OF SOIL

(II) TRANSFER THE PORTION OF SOIL REMAINS TO THE
DEPARTMENT VETERANS AFFAIRSOF FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE APPROPRIATE
REMAINS;DISPOSITION OF THE PORTION OF THE SOIL AND
– 27 –

PAGE 28
Ch. 600 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(III) IF OWNER,AUTHORIZED BY THE CEMETERY OR TRANSFER
THE BALANCE OF THE SOIL REMAINS TO A CEMETERY OR THE OWNER OF A
FOREST CONSERVATION ACT.WOODLAND PROTECTED UNDER THE

7–505.

A licensee or the agent of a licensee may not represent that a burial or funeral casket
cremation, HYDROLYSIS,is required for REDUCTION.ALKALINE OR NATURAL ORGANIC

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 28 –