PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1030

Chapter 1030

(House Bill 1118)

AN ACT concerning

Harford County – Alcoholic Beverages – Performing Arts Theater License

FOR the purpose of altering eligibility for a performing arts theater license in Harford
County by altering the definition of “performing arts theater” and authorizing the
Board of License Commissioners for Harford County to issue the license to a certain
for–profit theater, rather than a nonprofit theater; authorizing the holder of the
license to sell liquor for on–premises consumption in addition to beer and wine;
altering the license fee; and generally relating to alcoholic beverages licenses in
Harford County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 22–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 22–1005.2 ~~and~~ ~~22–1501(b)(2)~~
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

22–102.

This title applies only in Harford County.

22–1005.2.

(a) In this section, “performing arts theater” means an area, a building, or a
structure designed and used for plays, acts, dramas, concerts, or histrionics by actors or
[or films].actresses performing on a stage the showing of movies or

[and], wine,(b) There is a performing arts theater beer license.AND LIQUOR

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1030 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(c) The Board may issue the license for use on the premises of a performing arts
[nonprofit] FOR–PROFITtheater operated by a organization.

[and], wine,(d) The license authorizes the holder to sell or serve beer AND
at retail for on–premises consumption.LIQUOR

[and], wine,(e) The license holder may sell or serve beer LIQUOR:AND

(1) 1 hour before and after a performance;

(2) during a performance;

(3) during an intermission; and

(4) during a reception 1 hour before or 1 hour after a performance.

(f) The license may not be transferred to another location.

[and], wine,(g) The license holder shall purchase beer from anAND LIQUOR
authorized and licensed wholesaler.

(h) ~~Issuance~~ ~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~license~~ ~~under~~ ~~this~~ ~~section~~ ~~does~~ ~~not~~ ~~prohibit~~ ~~the~~ ~~Board~~ ~~from~~
~~issuing~~ ~~a~~ ~~Class~~ ~~C~~ ~~per~~ ~~diem~~ ~~license~~ ~~that~~ ~~applies~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~performing~~ ~~arts~~ ~~theater.~~

~~(i)~~ The license holder shall serve or offer for sale snacks at all times when beer
[and], wine, are sold.AND LIQUOR

(I) [$500] $1,500.~~(j)~~ The annual license fee is

~~22–1501.~~

~~(b)~~ ~~The~~ ~~following~~ ~~sections~~ ~~of~~ ~~Title~~ ~~4,~~ ~~Subtitle~~ ~~2~~ ~~(“Issuance~~ ~~or~~ ~~Denial~~ ~~of~~ ~~Local~~
~~Licenses”)~~ ~~of~~ ~~Division~~ ~~I~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~article~~ ~~apply~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~county:~~

~~(2)~~ ~~§~~ ~~4–203~~ ~~(“Prohibition~~ ~~against~~ ~~issuing~~ ~~multiple~~ ~~licenses~~ ~~to~~ ~~individual~~ ~~or~~
~~for~~ ~~use~~ ~~of~~ ~~entity”),~~ ~~subject~~ ~~to~~ ~~§§~~ ~~22–1503~~ ~~and~~ ~~22–1504~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~subtitle~~ ~~and~~ ~~Subtitle~~ ~~13,~~ ~~Part~~
~~[and],~~ ~~II,~~ ~~§~~ ~~22–1005.2~~~~III~~ ~~Subtitle~~ ~~16,~~ ~~Part~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~title;~~~~AND~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –