PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 293

Chapter 293

(House Bill 1167)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Center for School Safety – ~~Statewide~~ Secure Schools Emergency
Response Grant Program – Established

FOR the purpose of establishing the ~~Statewide~~ Secure Schools Emergency Response Grant
Program to be administered by the Maryland Center for School Safety to provide
funds to improve ~~the~~ ~~safety~~ ~~and~~ ~~security~~ ~~of~~ ~~public~~ ~~schools~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~by~~
~~implementing~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ emergency notification ~~system~~ systems and communications
between certain entities; and generally relating to the establishment of the
~~Statewide~~ Secure Schools Emergency Response Grant Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section 7–1502(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 7–1502(g)(20) and (21)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Education
Section 7–1502(g)(22) and 7–1513
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 1–301(a), (j), (t), and (u)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

7–1502.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 293 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) There is a Maryland Center for School Safety.

(g) The Center shall perform the following functions and duties:

(20) Review and comment on school emergency plans developed under §
[and]7–1510 of this subtitle;

(21) Report to the General Assembly and the Governor on life–threatening
subtitle;incidents as required under § 7–1510 of this AND

(22) ADMINISTER ~~STATEWIDE~~ SECURE SCHOOLS EMERGENCYTHE
RESPONSE GRANT PROGRAM § 7–1513 SUBTITLE.UNDER OF THIS

7–1513.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “EMERGENCY EVENT” MEANS AN EMERGENCY SITUATION THAT
RESPONDERS.REQUIRES AN IMMEDIATE RESPONSE BY FIRST

~~(2)~~ (3) “FIRST RESPONDER” § 1–301HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
PUBLIC SAFETY ARTICLE.OF THE

~~(3)~~ ~~“PANIC~~ ~~EVENT”~~~~BUTTON~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMERGENCY~~ ~~SITUATION~~ ~~THAT~~
~~COMPELS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~USER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMERGENCY~~ ~~NOTIFICATION~~ ~~SYSTEM~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PRESS~~ ~~A~~ ~~PANIC~~
~~BUTTON~~ ~~TO~~ ~~INSTANTLY~~ ~~SUMMON~~ ~~HELP~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THEIR~~ ~~LOCATION~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~FIRST~~
~~PERSONNEL.~~~~RESPONDERS~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~AGENCY~~

(4) “PROGRAM” ~~STATEWIDE~~ SECURE SCHOOLSMEANS THE
EMERGENCY RESPONSE GRANT PROGRAM.

(5) “PUBLIC AGENCY” § 1–301SAFETY HAS THE MEANING STATED IN
PUBLIC SAFETY ARTICLE.OF THE

(6) “PUBLIC POINT”SAFETY ANSWERING HAS THE MEANING STATED
§ 1–301 PUBLIC SAFETY ARTICLE.IN OF THE

(B) (1) THERE ~~STATEWIDE~~ SECURE SCHOOLS EMERGENCYIS A
RESPONSE GRANT PROGRAM CENTER.ADMINISTERED BY THE

(2) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE GRANTS TO
LOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEMS TO IMPROVE ~~THE~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~SECURITY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~PUBLIC~~
~~STATE~~~~SCHOOLS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BY~~ ~~IMPLEMENTING~~ ~~A~~ ~~STATEWIDE~~ EMERGENCY

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 293

NOTIFICATION ~~SYSTEM~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~FACILITATES~~ SYSTEMS AND COMMUNICATION
PERSONNEL,BETWEEN PUBLIC ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL A PUBLIC
POINT, ~~LIFE–THREATENING~~SAFETY ANSWERING AND A PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY ~~IN~~
~~SITUATIONS,~~~~AND~~ ~~EMERGENCY~~ ~~INCLUDING~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~EMERGENCIES~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~
~~PRESENCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACTIVE~~ ~~SHOOTER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~INTRUDER~~ ~~AT~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ DURING
EVENTS.EMERGENCY

(3) A CENTERLOCAL SCHOOL SYSTEM AWARDED A GRANT BY THE
PROGRAM TO:UNDER THE SHALL USE THE FUNDS

(I) IMPROVE SYSTEMS;EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION OR

(II) ENHANCE COMMUNICATIONS WITHIN THE SCHOOL AND
AGENCIES.WITH PUBLIC SAFETY

(4) EACH BOARD,COUNTY IN CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL LAW
POINT,ENFORCEMENT AND A LOCAL PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING MAY APPLY TO
CENTER PROGRAM.THE FOR A GRANT UNDER THE

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~PROCURE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~IMPLEMENT~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMERGENCY~~
~~SECURE~~ ~~SCHOOLS~~ ~~EMERGENCY~~ ~~RESPONSE~~~~COMMUNICATION~~ ~~PLATFORM~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~A~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~WHICH~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~FACULTY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~STAFF~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~ABLE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ALERT~~
~~LIFE–THREATENING~~~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~ANSWERING~~ ~~POINT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~A~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AN~~
~~SITUATION.~~~~EMERGENCY~~

~~(D)~~ (C) ~~THE~~ ~~COMMUNICATION~~ ~~PLATFORM~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(C)~~ AN~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~SHALL~~ EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
(B)(3)AND THE COMMUNICATIONS UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS SECTION MAY
FOLLOWING:INCLUDE THE

(1) A APPLICATION–BASEDCELLULAR PHONE ~~PANIC~~ ~~BUTTON~~
THAT:EMERGENCY EVENT SYSTEM

(I) CAN BE INTEGRATED WITH A LOCAL PUBLIC SAFETY
POINT;ANSWERING AND

(II) IS TO:ABLE

1. PLACE 9–1–1;A STANDARD TELEPHONE CALL TO

2. TEXT COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN AUTHORIZED
AGENCY;USERS AND A PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT AND PUBLIC SAFETY

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 293 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

3. PROVIDE MESSAGES, E–MAILS,TEXT AND PUSH
USERS, PERSONNEL,NOTIFICATIONS TO AUTHORIZED INCLUDING SCHOOL FIRST
RESPONDERS, PERSONNEL;AND OTHER PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY AND

4. AUTOMATICALLY PLANS,TRANSMIT SCHOOL FLOOR
PLANS,SCHOOL EMERGENCY AND RELEVANT CONTACT INFORMATION TO FIRST
RESPONDERS OR PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY PERSONNEL RESPONDING TO A PANIC
BUTTON EVENT AT A SCHOOL WITHOUT FURTHER ACTION NEEDED BY THE USER
EMERGENCY;REPORTING THE ~~AND~~

(2) ~~CAPABILITY~~ THE CAPABILITY TO GENERATE AN AUTOMATED
EMERGENCY ALERT NOTIFICATION TO ALL PUBLIC AND NONPUBLIC SCHOOLS
LOCATED IN REASONABLE PROXIMITY TO AN EMERGENCY SITUATION THAT IS
DETERMINED TO BE AN IMMINENT THREAT TO SCHOOL CAMPUSES OR SCHOOL
REPORT,PERSONNEL BY THE PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT RECEIVING THE
~~OF:~~~~INCLUDING~~ ~~REPORTS~~

~~(I)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~KILLED;~~~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~WAS~~

~~(II)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ACCIDENT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THREAT~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~RESULTED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SERIOUS~~
~~INJURY;~~~~BODILY~~

~~(III)~~ ~~AN~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~WAS~~ ~~ASSAULTED~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~A~~ ~~DEADLY~~
~~LARGE;~~~~WEAPON~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ALLEGED~~ ~~ASSAILANT~~ ~~REMAINS~~ ~~AT~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FIREARM;~~~~DISCHARGE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~AND~~

~~(V)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~EMERGENCY~~ ~~SITUATION~~ ~~AGREED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~BY~~ ~~A~~
~~BOARD;~~~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~AGENCY~~ ~~AND~~ ~~A~~ ~~COUNTY~~ AND

(3) INTERCOMS, SYSTEMS,SCHOOL PUBLIC ADDRESS
BOOSTERS,BIDIRECTIONAL ANTENNAS OR AND OTHER TECHNOLOGY THAT WILL
COMMUNICATION,IMPROVE EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION AND AS IDENTIFIED BY THE
CENTER.

~~(E)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~(C)~~~~COMMUNICATION~~ ~~PLATFORM~~ ~~PROCURED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~
~~U.S.~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~HOMELAND~~~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~CERTIFIED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~SECURITY~~ ~~SUPPORT~~ ~~ANTI–TERRORISM~~ ~~FOSTERING~~~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FEDERAL~~ ~~BY~~
~~EFFECTIVE~~ ~~TECHNOLOGIES~~ ~~ACT.~~

~~(F)~~ (D) ~~(1)~~ ON SEPTEMBER 1, 2026, CENTEROR BEFORE THE SHALL
PROGRAMENSURE THAT THE ~~HAS~~ ~~BEEN~~ ~~IMPLEMENTED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~IN~~
~~STATE.~~~~THE~~

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 293

~~(2)~~ ~~(I)~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~SCHOOL~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EXISTING~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IS~~
~~PROGRAM~~~~SUBSTANTIALLY~~ ~~SIMILAR~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~SUBMIT~~ ~~A~~ ~~REQUEST~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~
~~CENTER~~ ~~PROGRAM.~~~~TO~~ ~~OPT~~ ~~OUT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(II)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~CENTER~~ ~~SCHOOL’S~~~~THE~~ ~~DETERMINES~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLIC~~
~~PROGRAM,~~ ~~CENTER~~~~EXISTING~~ ~~PROGRAM~~ ~~IS~~ ~~SUBSTANTIALLY~~ ~~SIMILAR~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THE~~
~~SCHOOL’S~~ ~~PROGRAM~~~~SHALL~~ ~~GRANT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REQUEST~~ ~~TO~~ ~~OPT~~ ~~OUT~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ IS
BOARD.OPERATING AND AVAILABLE TO EACH COUNTY

~~(G)~~ (E) ~~FOR~~ ~~2026,~~ THE GOVERNOR~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ MAY
~~$4,500,000~~INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION ~~OF~~ FOR THE
PROGRAM.

Article – Public Safety

1–301.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(j) (1) “First responder” means an employee of a State or local public safety
agency that provides emergency response services.

(2) “First responder” includes:

(i) a firefighter;

(ii) a paramedic;

(iii) an emergency medical technician;

(iv) a rescue squad member;

(v) a sworn member of the Office of the State Fire Marshal;

(vi) a member of a volunteer fire or rescue company who is a covered
employee under § 9–234 of the Labor and Employment Article;

(vii) an individual who is licensed or certified under § 13–516 of the
Education Article; and

(viii) a 9–1–1 specialist.

(t) “Public safety agency” means:

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 293 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) a functional division of a public agency that provides fire fighting,
police, medical, or other emergency services; or

(2) a private entity that provides fire fighting, police, medical, or other
emergency services on a voluntary basis.

(u) “Public safety answering point” means a communications facility that:

(1) is operated on a 24–hour basis;

(2) first receives 9–1–1 requests for emergency services in a 9–1–1 service
area; and

(3) as appropriate:

(i) dispatches public safety services directly;

(ii) transmits incident data to appropriate public safety agencies
within the State for the dispatch of public safety services; or

(iii) transfers 9–1–1 requests for emergency services or transmits
incident data to:

1. an appropriate federal emergency communication center
responsible for the delivery of public safety services on a federal campus or federal
reservation; or

2. an appropriate public safety answering point located
within or outside the State.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 6 –