PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 556

Chapter 556

(House Bill 1153)

AN ACT concerning

Environment – Water Pollution Control – Protecting State Waters From PFAS
Pollution
(Protecting State Waters From PFAS Pollution Act)

FOR the purpose of ~~establishing~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~discharge~~ ~~limit~~ ~~for~~ ~~PFAS~~ ~~chemicals~~ ~~in~~ ~~any~~ ~~water,~~
~~including~~ ~~stormwater,~~ ~~discharged~~ ~~from~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~significant~~ ~~industrial~~ ~~user;~~
~~requiring~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~significant~~ ~~industrial~~ ~~user~~ ~~to~~ ~~reduce~~ ~~PFAS~~ ~~chemicals~~ ~~from~~ ~~the~~
~~water~~ ~~it~~ ~~discharges~~ ~~to~~ ~~a~~ ~~publicly~~ ~~owned~~ ~~treatment~~ ~~works~~ ~~in~~ ~~a~~ ~~certain~~ ~~manner;~~
requiring the Department of the Environment to identify certain significant
industrial users in a certain manner by a certain date; requiring the Department to
develop certain PFAS monitoring and testing criteria for certain users in a certain
manner by a certain date; requiring the Department to develop certain PFAS action
levels and certain mitigation plans in a certain manner by a certain date; requiring
a certain significant industrial user to store, ~~reuse,~~ ~~and~~ ~~dispose~~ ~~of~~ certain PFAS
chemicals in a certain manner; authorizing a certain significant industrial user to
dispose of stored PFAS chemicals in a certain manner ~~and~~ ~~in~~ ~~accordance~~ ~~with~~ ~~certain~~
~~requirements;~~ requiring a certain significant industrial user to measure levels of
~~organic~~ ~~fluorine~~ PFAS chemicals in industrial wastewater by a certain date and to
report those levels to the Department ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Environment;~~ requiring the Department
to update a certain action plan on or before a certain date; and generally relating to
State waters and PFAS pollution.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Environment
Section 9–101(a) through (c), (g), and (i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Environment
Section 9–353 ~~through~~ ~~9–356~~ and 9–354 to be under the new part “Part VII.
Protecting State Waters From PFAS Pollution”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Environment

9–101.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 556 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) In this title the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Discharge” means:

(1) The addition, introduction, leaking, spilling, or emitting of a pollutant
into the waters of this State; or

(2) The placing of a pollutant in a location where the pollutant is likely to
pollute.

(c) (1) “Disposal system” means a system for disposing of wastes by surface,
above surface, or underground methods.

(2) “Disposal system” includes a treatment works and a disposal well.

(g) “Pollutant” means:

(1) Any waste or wastewater that is discharged from:

(i) A publicly owned treatment works; or

(ii) An industrial source; or

(2) Any other liquid, gaseous, solid, or other substance that will pollute any
waters of this State.

(i) “Publicly owned treatment works” means a facility that is:

(1) Owned by this State or a political subdivision, municipal corporation,
or other public entity; and

(2) Used for the treatment of pollutants.

9–351. RESERVED.

9–352. RESERVED.

PART VII. PROTECTING STATE WATERS FROM PFAS POLLUTION.

9–353.

(A) IN THIS PART THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 556

(B) (1) “INDUSTRIAL USER” MEANS:

~~(1)~~ (I) A MANUFACTURING,PERSON WHO IS ENGAGED IN
FABRICATING, GOODS;OR ASSEMBLING OR

~~(2)~~ (II) A MEMBER OF ANY CLASS OF SIGNIFICANT PRODUCERS OF
BY:POLLUTANTS IDENTIFIED UNDER REGULATIONS ADOPTED

~~(I)~~ 1. THE SECRETARY; OR

~~(II)~~ 2. THE ADMINISTRATOR U.S. ENVIRONMENTALOF THE
PROTECTION AGENCY.

(2) “INDUSTRIAL USER” FEDERAL, STATE,DOES NOT INCLUDE THE
GOVERNMENTS.AND LOCAL

(C) “PFAS CHEMICALS” MEANS A CLASS OF FLUORINATED ORGANIC
ATOM,CHEMICALS THAT CONTAIN AT LEAST ONE FULLY FLUORINATED CARBON
SUBSTANCES.INCLUDING PERFLUOROALKYL AND POLYFLUOROALKYL

(D) “PRETREATMENT PERMIT” MEANS A DOCUMENT ISSUED BY THE
DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT’SOR THE DESIGNEE THAT AUTHORIZES A SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER TO INTRODUCE INDUSTRIAL WASTES INTO A PUBLICLY OWNED
TREATMENT WORKS IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS
COMAR 26.08.01.01A(69).UNDER

(E) (1) “SIGNIFICANT USER”INDUSTRIAL MEANS AN INDUSTRIAL USER
THAT:

~~(1)~~ (I) IS SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
40 C.F.R. PART 403.6;UNDER

~~(2)~~ (II) DISCHARGES 25,000AN AVERAGE OF GALLONS PER DAY OR
WORKS,MORE OF PROCESSED WASTEWATER TO A PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT
SANITARY, COOLING,NOT INCLUDING NONCONTACT AND BOILER BLOWDOWN
WASTEWATER;

~~(3)~~ (III) CONTRIBUTES PROCESSED WASTEWATER THAT MAKES UP
5% DRY–WEATHEROR MORE OF THE AVERAGE HYDRAULIC OR ORGANIC CAPACITY
WORKS;OF THE PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT OR

~~(4)~~ (IV) IS DESIGNATED AS A SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER BY
THE PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS ON THE BASIS THAT THE INDUSTRIAL
HAS:USER
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 556 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(I)~~ 1. A REASONABLE POTENTIAL FOR ADVERSELY
PLANT’SAFFECTING THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT OPERATIONS AND SEWER
SYSTEM; OR

~~(II)~~ 2. VIOLATED A PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR
REQUIREMENT.

(2) “SIGNIFICANT USER”INDUSTRIAL DOES NOT INCLUDE THE
FEDERAL, STATE, GOVERNMENTS.AND LOCAL

(F) “WATERS STATE” INCLUDE:OF THE

(1) BOTH SURFACE AND UNDERGROUND WATERS WITHIN THE
STATE JURISDICTION;BOUNDARIES OF THE SUBJECT TO ITS

(2) THAT ATLANTIC OCEANPORTION OF THE WITHIN THE
STATE;BOUNDARIES OF THE

(3) THE CHESAPEAKE BAY TRIBUTARIES;AND ITS

(4) ALL PONDS, LAKES, RIVERS, STREAMS, DITCHES,PUBLIC TAX
DITCHES, STATE,AND PUBLIC DRAINAGE SYSTEMS WITHIN THE OTHER THAN THOSE
COLLECT, CONVEY, SEWAGE;DESIGNED AND USED TO OR DISPOSE OF SANITARY AND

(5) THE FREE–FLOWINGFLOODPLAIN OF WATERS DETERMINED BY
DEPARTMENT 100–YEAR FREQUENCY.THE ON THE BASIS OF THE FLOOD

9–354.

(A) THIS THAT:SECTION APPLIES TO A SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER

(1) HAS PERMIT;A PRETREATMENT AND

(2) ~~(I)~~ IS PFASCURRENTLY AND INTENTIONALLY USING
CHEMICALS; ~~OR~~

~~(II)~~ ~~OPERATES~~ ~~PFAS~~~~ON~~ ~~A~~ ~~SITE~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~A~~ ~~PRIOR~~ ~~HISTORY~~ ~~OF~~
~~KNOWN.~~~~CHEMICAL~~ ~~USE~~ ~~IS~~ ~~KNOWN~~ ~~OR~~ ~~REASONABLY~~

(B) ~~A~~ ~~SIGNIFICANT~~ ~~INDUSTRIAL~~ ~~USER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ELIMINATE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PRESENCE~~ ~~OF~~
~~PFAS~~ ~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~WATER~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IT~~ ~~DISCHARGES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLICLY~~ ~~OWNED~~
ON OCTOBER~~TREATMENT~~ ~~WORKS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ OR BEFORE
1, 2024, DEPARTMENT SHALL,THE IN COLLABORATION WITH PUBLICLY OWNED

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 556

STATE,TREATMENT WORKS AND SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS IN THE IDENTIFY
THE SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS THAT CURRENTLY AND INTENTIONALLY USE
PFAS CHEMICALS.

(C) ON JANUARY 1, 2025,OR BEFORE IN ACCORDANCE WITH GUIDANCE
U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, DEPARTMENTFROM THE THE SHALL
PFASDEVELOP MONITORING AND TESTING PROTOCOLS FOR SIGNIFICANT
(B)INDUSTRIAL USERS IDENTIFIED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION.

(D) (1) ON JUNE 1, 2025, DEPARTMENT SHALL,OR BEFORE THE IN
COLLABORATION WITH ~~THE~~ PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS AND THE
STATESIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS IN THE IDENTIFIED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
(B) SECTION, PFASSUBSECTION OF THIS DEVELOP ACTION LEVELS FOR
PFASADDRESSING CONTAMINATION FROM INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE FOR
PERMITS.PRETREATMENT

(2) ON SEPTEMBER 1, 2025, DEPARTMENT SHALL,OR BEFORE THE
IN COLLABORATION WITH ~~THE~~ PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS AND THE
STATESIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS IN THE IDENTIFIED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
(B) SECTION,SUBSECTION OF THIS DEVELOP MITIGATION PLANS FOR ADDRESSING
PFAS CONTAMINATION FROM INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE FOR PRETREATMENT
PERMITS.

(3) THE (2)MITIGATION PLANS UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION SHALL INCLUDE STRATEGIES AND OPTIONS FOR REDUCING THE
PFAS DISCHARGE, INCLUDING:PRESENCE OF IN INDUSTRIAL

(I) SUBSTITUTING OR ELIMINATING PRODUCTS CONTAINING
PFAS CHEMICALS;

(II) TAKING PRECAUTIONS TO AVOID ACCIDENTAL
DISCHARGES;

(III) DECONTAMINATING OR REPLACING EQUIPMENT
PFAS CHEMICALS;CONTAMINATED WITH OR

(IV) USING DEPARTMENTANY OTHER METHOD THE
PFASDETERMINES IS NECESSARY FOR THE REDUCTION OR ELIMINATION OF
WATER. ~~IN~~ ~~U.S.~~CHEMICALS IN ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~ ~~PROTECTION~~ ~~AGENCY~~ ~~PFAS~~~~REGARDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ELIMINATION~~ ~~OF~~
~~WATER,~~ ~~PFAS~~~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DISCHARGE~~ ~~LIMIT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ANY~~

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 556 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~WATER,~~ ~~STORMWATER,~~~~INCLUDING~~ ~~DISCHARGED~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~SIGNIFICANT~~
~~4~~ ~~TRILLION.~~~~INDUSTRIAL~~ ~~USER~~ ~~IS~~ ~~PARTS~~ ~~PER~~

~~(D)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~U.S.~~~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~ ~~PROTECTION~~ ~~AGENCY~~ ~~PFAS~~~~REGARDING~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ELIMINATION~~ ~~OF~~
~~WATER,~~ ~~PFAS~~~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~A~~ ~~SIGNIFICANT~~ ~~INDUSTRIAL~~ ~~USER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~REDUCE~~
~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~WATER~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IT~~ ~~DISCHARGES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLICLY~~ ~~OWNED~~
~~4~~~~TREATMENT~~ ~~WORKS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONCENTRATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~THAN~~ ~~PARTS~~ ~~PER~~
~~TRILLION,~~ ~~BY:~~~~INCLUDING~~

~~(1)~~ ~~SUBSTITUTING~~ ~~PFAS~~~~OR~~ ~~ELIMINATING~~ ~~PRODUCTS~~ ~~CONTAINING~~
~~CHEMICALS;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~TAKING~~ ~~DISCHARGES;~~~~PRECAUTIONS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~AVOID~~ ~~ACCIDENTAL~~

~~(3)~~ ~~DECONTAMINATING~~ ~~OR~~ ~~REPLACING~~ ~~EQUIPMENT~~ ~~CONTAMINATED~~
~~PFAS~~ ~~CHEMICALS;~~~~WITH~~ ~~OR~~

~~(4)~~ ~~USING~~ ~~U.S.~~ ~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~METHOD~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROTECTION~~ ~~AGENCY~~ ~~PFAS~~~~DETERMINES~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NECESSARY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ELIMINATION~~ ~~OF~~
~~WATER.~~~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~

(E) ~~(1)~~ IN U.S.ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY PFASREGARDING THE STORAGE OF
CHEMICALS, PFASA SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER SHALL SAFELY STORE
PFASCHEMICALS THAT WERE CAPTURED AFTER REDUCING CHEMICALS FROM
SECTION.WATER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS

~~(2)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~FEDERAL,~~ ~~STATE,~~ ~~LAW,~~~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~LOCAL~~
~~REGULATION,~~ ~~POLICY,~~~~OR~~ ~~A~~ ~~SIGNIFICANT~~ ~~INDUSTRIAL~~ ~~USER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~REUSE~~ ~~STORED~~
~~PFAS~~ ~~OPERATIONS.~~~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ITS~~ ~~FACILITY~~

(F) ~~(1)~~ ~~SUBJECT~~ ~~(2)~~ ~~SUBSECTION,~~ A~~TO~~ ~~PARAGRAPH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~A~~
PFASSIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER MAY DISPOSE OF STORED CHEMICALS USING
DEPARTMENTSAFE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS OR TECHNOLOGIES APPROVED BY THE ~~OR~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~REGULATION.~~~~IN~~ ~~ANOTHER~~ ~~MANNER~~ ~~APPROVED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~BY~~

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~ ~~SIGNIFICANT~~ ~~INDUSTRIAL~~ ~~USER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~DISPOSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~STORED~~
~~PFAS~~ ~~INVOLVING:~~~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~MANNER~~

~~(I)~~ ~~DISPOSAL~~ ~~LANDFILL;~~~~AT~~ ~~A~~ ~~SOLID~~ ~~WASTE~~

~~(II)~~ ~~INCINERATION;~~ ~~OR~~

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 556

~~(III)~~ ~~LAND~~ ~~APPLICATION.~~

(G) A SHALL:SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER

(1) (I) BY ~~APRIL~~ SEPTEMBER 1, 2025, MEASURE THE LEVELS OF
PFAS~~ORGANIC~~ ~~FLUORINE~~ CHEMICALS IN ITS INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER USING
DEPARTMENT;METHODS APPROVED BY THE AND

(II) REPORT PFASTHE LEVELS OF ~~ORGANIC~~ ~~FLUORINE~~
CHEMICALS IN THE INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER IN A MANNER APPROVED BY THE
DEPARTMENT;

(2) BY ~~OCTOBER~~ JULY 1, ~~2025~~ 2026, AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS
SECTION, PFASIMPLEMENT MEASURES TO REDUCE CHEMICALS FROM WATER
WORKS;DISCHARGED TO A PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT

(3) PROVIDE PFASDOCUMENTATION OF STORAGE OR REUSE ON
TO:REQUEST

(I) THE ATTORNEY GENERAL;

(II) THE DEPARTMENT;

(III) A COUNCIL;COUNTY

(IV) A STATE’S ATTORNEY;

(V) A CITY ATTORNEY; OR

(VI) ANY STATE ENTITY;OTHER OR LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL AND

(4) REPORT PFASTHE STORAGE OR DISPOSAL OF CHEMICALS
40 C.F.R. PART 372 (TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING).UNDER

~~(H)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~MEMORANDUM~~ ~~ADDRESSING~~~~SHALL~~ ~~CONSIDER~~ ~~THE~~
~~PFAS~~ ~~DISCHARGES~~ ~~NPDES~~ ~~PERMITS~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~PRETREATMENT~~~~IN~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROGRAM~~ ~~MONITORING~~ ~~PROGRAMS~~ ~~U.S.~~ ~~ENVIRONMENTAL~~~~AND~~ ~~ISSUED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~PROTECTION~~ ~~AGENCY~~ ~~DECEMBER~~ ~~5,~~ ~~2022,~~~~ON~~ ~~WHEN~~ ~~DETERMINING~~ ~~PERMISSIBLE~~
~~LEVELS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ORGANIC~~ ~~FLUORINE~~ ~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~INDUSTRIAL~~ ~~WASTEWATER~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~(G)(1)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

~~(I)~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~CONTRACT~~ ~~OR~~ ~~AGREEMENT~~ ~~BETWEEN~~ ~~A~~ ~~SIGNIFICANT~~ ~~INDUSTRIAL~~
~~USER~~ ~~AND~~ ~~A~~ ~~PUBLICLY~~ ~~OWNED~~ ~~TREATMENT~~ ~~WORKS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~AUTHORIZES~~ ~~A~~ ~~DISCHARGE~~

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 556 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~STATE~~~~OF~~ ~~WATER~~ ~~INTO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~WATERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~EXCEEDS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DISCHARGE~~ ~~LIMIT~~
~~PFAS~~ ~~(C)~~~~FOR~~ ~~CHEMICALS~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~
~~SECTION.~~~~SUPERSEDED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THIS~~

~~9–355.~~

~~ON~~ ~~DECEMBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024,~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~ADOPT~~
~~PFAS~~~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DISCHARGE~~ ~~LIMIT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~CHEMICALS~~
~~§~~ ~~9–354(C)~~~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SUBTITLE~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~CONDITION~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ISSUING~~ ~~A~~
~~USER.~~~~PRETREATMENT~~ ~~PERMIT~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~SIGNIFICANT~~ ~~INDUSTRIAL~~

~~9–356.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PFAS~~~~PRESENCE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~TOTAL~~ ~~ORGANIC~~ ~~FLUORINE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~CHEMICALS~~
~~4~~~~EXCEEDING~~ ~~PARTS~~ ~~PER~~ ~~TRILLION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~DISCHARGE~~ ~~INTO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~WATERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~STATE~~ ~~PERMIT.~~~~IS~~ ~~A~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~PRETREATMENT~~

~~(B)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~(A)~~ ~~SECTION,~~~~ADDITION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~A~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~~~THE~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~ENFORCE~~ ~~A~~ ~~VIOLATION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~PART~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~
~~DEPARTMENT.~~~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~ADOPTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~

SECTION 2. AND BE FURTHER ENACTED, That on or before December 1, 2025,
the Department of the Environment shall update the Department’s PFAS Action Plan with
an evaluation of disposal methods for PFAS chemicals and the progress made on the
requirements of this Act.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 8 –