PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 409

Chapter 409

(House Bill 1206)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland–Ireland Trade Commission – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Maryland–Ireland Trade Commission in the
Department of Commerce to study and make recommendations regarding certain
trade relations between Maryland and Ireland; and generally relating to the
Maryland–Ireland Trade Commission.

BY adding to
Article – Economic Development
Section 5–2501 through 5–2504 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 25.
Maryland–Ireland Trade Commission”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

Preamble

WHEREAS, Over 9% of Maryland’s population is of Irish descent; and

WHEREAS, The ties that bind Ireland to Maryland are deep and lasting; and

WHEREAS, Irish heritage has been the fortunate lot of many great Marylanders;
and

WHEREAS, Ireland and Maryland are attempting to reinvent their economies for
success in the twenty–first century; and

WHEREAS, Marylanders have both historic and practical reasons to desire the
building of firmer commercial links with Ireland; now, therefore,

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

SUBTITLE 25. MARYLAND–IRELAND TRADE COMMISSION.

5–2501.

IN SUBTITLE, “COMMISSION” MARYLAND–IRELAND TRADETHIS MEANS THE
COMMISSION.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 409 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

5–2502.

(A) THERE MARYLAND–IRELAND TRADE COMMISSIONIS A IN THE
DEPARTMENT.

(B) THE COMMISSIONPURPOSE OF THE IS TO STUDY AND PROMOTE TRADE
MARYLAND IRELAND.BETWEEN AND

5–2503.

(A) THE COMMISSION MEMBERS:CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING

(1) SECRETARY, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;THE OR THE

(2) SECRETARY STATE, SECRETARY STATE’STHE OF OR THE OF
DESIGNEE;

(3) SENATE MARYLAND,TWO MEMBERS OF THE OF APPOINTED BY
PRESIDENT SENATE,THE OF THE WHO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF ORGANIZATIONS THAT
IRISH AFFAIRS,PROMOTE OR CURRENT OR PAST INVOLVEMENT IN ORGANIZATIONS
IRISH AFFAIRS, WELL–BEINGTHAT PROMOTE OR HAVE AN INTEREST IN THE OF
MARYLAND IRELAND;TRADE RELATIONS BETWEEN AND

(4) HOUSE DELEGATES,TWO MEMBERS OF THE OF APPOINTED BY
SPEAKER HOUSE,THE OF THE WHO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF ORGANIZATIONS THAT
IRISH AFFAIRS,PROMOTE OR CURRENT OR PAST INVOLVEMENT IN ORGANIZATIONS
IRISH AFFAIRS, WELL–BEINGTHAT PROMOTE OR HAVE AN INTEREST IN THE OF
MARYLAND IRELAND;TRADE RELATIONS BETWEEN AND AND

(5) MEMBERS, GOVERNOR,THE FOLLOWING APPOINTED BY THE
SENATE:WITH THE ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE

(I) ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A PUBLIC INSTITUTION OF
EDUCATION;HIGHER

(II) MARYLAND CHAMBERONE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OF
COMMERCE ORGANIZATION;OR ITS SUCCESSOR AND

(III) IRISH–AMERICANTWO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
COMMUNITY, PARTY.WHO MAY NOT BE OF THE SAME POLITICAL

(B) THE COMMISSIONCHAIR AND VICE CHAIR OF THE SHALL BE ELECTED
COMMISSION.FROM AMONG THE MEMBERS OF THE
– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 409

(C) A BOARD:MEMBER OF THE

(1) BOARD;MAY NOT RECEIVE COMPENSATION AS A MEMBER OF THE
BUT

(2) IS ENTITLED TO REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES UNDER THE
STANDARD STATE TRAVEL REGULATIONS, STATE BUDGET.AS PROVIDED IN THE

(D) ~~(1)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~4~~ ~~YEARS.~~~~TERM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~IS~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~STAGGERED~~ ~~AS~~
~~OCTOBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024.~~~~REQUIRED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ ~~ON~~

~~(3)~~ ~~AT~~ ~~TERM,~~~~THE~~ ~~END~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~CONTINUES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~SERVE~~ ~~UNTIL~~
~~QUALIFIES.~~~~A~~ ~~SUCCESSOR~~ ~~IS~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~AND~~

~~(4)~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~IS~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~A~~ ~~TERM~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~BEGUN~~ ~~SERVES~~
~~ONLY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERM~~ ~~UNTIL~~ ~~A~~ ~~SUCCESSOR~~ ~~IS~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~AND~~
~~QUALIFIES.~~

~~(5)~~ THE GOVERNOR MAY REMOVE AN APPOINTED MEMBER FOR
INCOMPETENCE, MISCONDUCT, OR FAILURE TO PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE
POSITION.

5–2504.

(A) THE COMMISSION SHALL STUDY AND MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS
REGARDING:

(1) ADVANCING BILATERAL TRADE AND INVESTMENT BETWEEN
MARYLAND IRELAND;AND

(2) INITIATING JOINT ACTION ON POLICY ISSUES OF MUTUAL
MARYLAND IRELAND;INTEREST TO AND

(3) PROMOTING BUSINESS AND ACADEMIC EXCHANGES BETWEEN
MARYLAND IRELAND;AND

(4) ENCOURAGING MUTUAL ECONOMIC SUPPORT BETWEEN
MARYLAND IRELAND;AND

(5) ENCOURAGING MUTUAL INVESTMENT IN THE INFRASTRUCTURE
MARYLAND IRELAND;OF AND AND

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 409 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(6) COMMISSION.OTHER ISSUES AS DETERMINED BY THE

(B) ON DECEMBER 1, 2025, ~~DECEMBER~~ ~~1~~OR BEFORE ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~
~~THEREAFTER,~~ COMMISSIONTHE SHALL REPORT ITS FINDINGS AND
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY.THE THE

~~SECTION~~ ~~2.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That:~~

~~(a)~~ ~~All~~ ~~initial~~ ~~appointments~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland–Ireland~~ ~~Trade~~ ~~Commission~~ ~~shall~~ ~~be~~
~~made~~ ~~not~~ ~~later~~ ~~than~~ ~~February~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2025.~~

~~(b)~~ ~~The~~ ~~terms~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~initial~~ ~~appointed~~ ~~members~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Maryland–Ireland~~ ~~Trade~~
~~Commission~~ ~~shall~~ ~~expire~~ ~~as~~ ~~follows:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~two~~ ~~members~~ ~~in~~ ~~2025;~~ ~~and~~

~~(2)~~ ~~two~~ ~~members~~ ~~in~~ ~~2026.~~

SECTION ~~3.~~ 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 2 years and, at the end of September
30, 2026, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be
abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 4 –