PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 813

Chapter 813

(House Bill 1293)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Department of Health – Public Education Campaign on Prostate,
Lung, and Breast Cancer Prevention

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Health to develop and
implement a public education campaign on prostate, lung, and breast cancer
prevention that targets communities disproportionately impacted by prostate, lung,
and breast cancer; and generally relating to the public education campaign on
prostate, lung, and breast cancer prevention.

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 13–11A–01 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 11A. Public Education
Campaign on Prostate, Lung, and Breast Cancer Prevention”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 7–317(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 7–317(f) and (g)(3)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

SUBTITLE 11A. PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN PROSTATE, LUNG,ON AND
BREAST CANCER PREVENTION.

13–11A–01.

(A) THE DEPARTMENT 3–YEARSHALL DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT A PUBLIC
PROSTATE, LUNG,EDUCATION CAMPAIGN ON AND BREAST CANCER PREVENTION

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 813 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

PROSTATE,THAT TARGETS COMMUNITIES DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTED BY
LUNG, CANCER.AND BREAST

(B) IN CAMPAIGN,DEVELOPING THE PUBLIC EDUCATION THE
DEPARTMENT WITH:SHALL WORK

(1) HEALTH PROVIDERS, PHYSICIANS,CARE INCLUDING LICENSED
PROSTATE, LUNG, CANCER;WHO TREAT INDIVIDUALS IMPACTED BY AND BREAST

(2) HOSPITALS; AND

(3) HEALTH PROSTATE, LUNG,CARE ASSOCIATIONS THAT FOCUS ON
CANCER.AND BREAST

(C) THE SHALL:PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN

(1) PROVIDE PROSTATE, LUNG,EDUCATIONAL INFORMATION ON AND
CANCER, REGARDING:BREAST INCLUDING INFORMATION

(I) THE PROSTATE, LUNG,RISKS AND WARNING SIGNS OF AND
CANCER;BREAST AND

(II) GUIDELINES PROSTATE,AND BEST PRACTICES TO PREVENT
LUNG, CANCER;AND BREAST

(2) PROMOTE:

~~(I)~~ ~~PARTICIPATION~~ ~~IN~~ ~~CLINICAL~~ ~~TRIALS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~STUDIES~~ ~~FOR~~
~~PROSTATE,~~ ~~LUNG,~~ ~~CANCER;~~~~AND~~ ~~BREAST~~ ~~AND~~

~~(II)~~ ~~SCREENINGS~~ PROSTATE, LUNG,SCREENINGS FOR AND
CANCER;BREAST AND

(3) PROVIDE INFORMATION ON LEGISLATION THAT REDUCES COST
PROSTATE, LUNG, CANCER.BARRIERS TO PREVENTION SERVICES FOR AND BREAST

(D) TO CAMPAIGN, DEPARTMENTIMPLEMENT THE PUBLIC EDUCATION THE
SHALL:

(1) USE MESSAGING;COMMUNICATIONS TOOLS AND

(2) POST DEPARTMENT’SALL MATERIALS ON THE WEBSITE IN A
FORMAT;CONSPICUOUS MANNER AND AN ACCESSIBLE AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 813

(3) DEVELOP AGENCIES,PARTNERSHIPS WITH HEALTH NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATIONS, AND PRIVATE ENTITIES THAT WORK WITH COMMUNITIES
PROSTATE, LUNG, CANCER.DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTED BY AND BREAST

(E) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(1) DEVELOP THE PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN ON OR BEFORE
DECEMBER 1, ~~2025~~ 2026;

~~(2)~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~30~~ ~~DAYS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~FEEDBACK~~ ~~AND~~ ~~COMMENTS~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~THE~~
~~CAMPAIGN;~~~~PUBLIC~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PUBLIC~~ ~~EDUCATION~~

~~(3)~~ (2) IMPLEMENT THE PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN ON OR
JANUARY 1, ~~2026~~ 2027;BEFORE AND

~~(4)~~ (3) SET MEASURABLE GOALS FOR THE PUBLIC EDUCATION
CAMPAIGN.

~~(F)~~ ~~ON~~ ~~JANUARY~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2027,~~ ~~2028,~~ ~~2029,~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~
~~SHALL~~ ~~SUBMIT~~ ~~A~~ ~~REPORT~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STATUS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MEETING~~ ~~ITS~~ ~~GOALS~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~
~~(E)(4)~~ ~~GENERAL~~ ~~ASSEMBLY,~~~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~SECTION~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~
~~§~~ ~~2–1257~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~GOVERNMENT~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~ACCORDANCE~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(G)~~ (F) (1) FOR 2026, 2027, 2028, 2029,EACH OF FISCAL YEARS ~~AND~~
2030, GOVERNORAND THE SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN
DEPARTMENTAPPROPRIATION TO THE FOR THE PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN
CIGARETTE RESTITUTION FUND § 7–317FROM THE ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.AND

(2) THE ~~2025~~ 2026TOTAL APPROPRIATION FOR FISCAL YEARS
~~2029~~ 2030 ~~$2,000,000~~ $750,000.THROUGH SHALL BE NOT MORE THAN

Article – State Finance and Procurement

7–317.

(a) There is a Cigarette Restitution Fund.

(f) (1) The Cigarette Restitution Fund shall be used to fund:

(i) the Tobacco Use Prevention and Cessation Program established
under Title 13, Subtitle 10 of the Health – General Article;

(ii) the Cancer Prevention, Education, Screening, and Treatment
Program established under Title 13, Subtitle 11 of the Health – General Article;
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 813 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(iii) the activities of the Southern Maryland Agricultural
Development Commission, in accordance with § 13–611 of the Economic Development
Article;

(iv) For each of fiscal years 2025 through 2029, the Maryland
Community Health Resources Commission Fund, in accordance with subsection (g) of this
[and]section;

(V) PROSTATE, LUNG,THE PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN ON
TITLE 13, SUBTITLE 11AAND BREAST CANCER PREVENTION ESTABLISHED UNDER
HEALTH – GENERAL ARTICLE;OF THE AND

[(v)] (VI) other programs that serve the following purposes:

1. reduction of the use of tobacco products by individuals
under the age of 21 years;

2. implementation of the Southern Maryland Regional
Strategy–Action Plan for Agriculture adopted by the Tri–County Council for Southern
Maryland with an emphasis on alternative crop uses for agricultural land now used for
growing tobacco;

3. public and school education campaigns to decrease tobacco
use with initial emphasis on areas targeted by tobacco manufacturers in marketing and
promoting cigarette and tobacco products;

4. smoking cessation programs;

5. enforcement of the laws regarding tobacco sales;

6. the purposes of the Maryland Health Care Foundation
under Title 20, Subtitle 5 of the Health – General Article;

7. primary health care in rural areas of the State and areas
targeted by tobacco manufacturers in marketing and promoting cigarette and tobacco
products;

8. prevention, treatment, and research concerning cancer,
heart disease, lung disease, tobacco product use, and tobacco control, including operating
costs and related capital projects;

9. substance abuse treatment and prevention programs; and

10. any other public purpose.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 813

(2) The provisions of this subsection may not be construed to affect the
Governor’s powers with respect to a request for an appropriation in the annual budget bill.

(g) (3) For each fiscal year for which appropriations are made, at least 50% of
the appropriations shall be made for those purposes enumerated in subsection (f)(1)(i), (ii),
[(v)1] (VI)1and through 9 of this section subject to the requirement of subsection (e)(2) of
this section.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before December 1,
2027, 2028, and 2029, the Maryland Department of Health shall include in the report
required under § 7–317(j)(2) of the State Finance and Procurement Article the status of
meeting its goals established under § 13–11A–01 of the Health – General Article, as enacted
by Section 1 of this Act.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
~~October~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024~~ July 1, 2025. It shall remain effective for a period of ~~5~~ 6 years and, at the
end of ~~September~~ ~~30,~~ ~~2029~~ June 30, 2031, this Act, with no further action required by the
General Assembly, shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 5 –