PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 214

Chapter 214

(House Bill 1228)

AN ACT concerning

Consumer Protection – Telephone Solicitation – Exemptions and ~~Waiver~~ ~~of~~
Remedies

FOR the purpose of establishing that certain provisions of law that prohibit a person from
making or causing to make a certain telephone solicitation that involves using a
certain automated system or playing a recorded message do not apply to a
noncommercial telephone solicitation for public opinion research; authorizing a
certain called party who is aggrieved by a person who violates certain provisions of
law to bring an action to enjoin further violations and to recover certain damages;
prohibiting the waiver of requirements and remedies relating to telephone
solicitations under certain circumstances; and generally relating to the regulation of
telephone solicitation in the State.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Commercial Law
Section 14–4501(a), (b), and (f)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Commercial Law
Section 14–4502(a) and 14–4503
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Public Utilities
Section 8–205(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Commercial Law

14–4501.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 214 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) “Called party” means a person who is a regular user of a telephone number
that receives a telephone solicitation.

(f) “Telephone solicitation” has the meaning stated in § 8–205 of the Public
Utilities Article.

14–4502.

(a) (1) This subsection does not apply to:

(i) A telephone solicitation that is an isolated transaction and not
performed in the course of a pattern of repeated transactions of a similar nature;

(ii) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, a noncommercial
telephone solicitation for religious, charitable, political, or educational purposes;

(iii) A business–to–business sale where the telephone solicitor has
been lawfully operating continuously for at least 3 years under the same business name;

(iv) A person who solicits contracts for the maintenance or repair of
goods previously purchased from the person making the solicitation or on whose behalf the
solicitation is made;

(v) A single telephone solicitation made to a customer or client in
[or]response to an inquiry or request from the customer or client;

(vi) A communication between a business and a customer that have
an existing business contract or relationship with each other if:

1. The communication is initially intended for informational
purposes only; and

2. Based on further inquiry from the customer, the
solicitation;communication becomes a telephone OR

(VII) A NONCOMMERCIAL TELEPHONE SOLICITATION FOR THE
RESEARCH.PURPOSE OF PUBLIC OPINION

(2) A person soliciting for noncommercial purposes under paragraph (1)(ii)
of this subsection is exempt only if:

(i) The person is soliciting for a nonprofit entity; and

(ii) The entity is:

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 214

1. Registered with the Secretary of State in accordance with
Title 6 of the Business Regulation Article; and

2. Exempt from taxation under § 501(c)(3), (4), or (6) of the
Internal Revenue Code.

(3) Without the prior express written consent of the called party, a person
may not make or cause to be made a telephone solicitation that involves:

(i) An automated system for the selection or dialing of telephone
numbers; or

(ii) The playing of a recorded message when a connection is
completed to the number called.

14–4503.

(1) SUBJECT (2) SUBSECTION,(a) ~~A~~ violation ofTO PARAGRAPH OF THIS A
this subtitle is:

(I)~~(1)~~ An unfair, abusive, or deceptive trade practice within the
meaning of Title 13 of this article; and

(II)~~(2)~~ Subject to the enforcement and penalty provisions contained in
Title 13 of this article.

(2) (I) A CALLED PARTY WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A PERSON WHO
§ 13–408VIOLATES THIS SUBTITLE MAY BRING AN ACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF
THIS ARTICLE TO ENJOIN FURTHER VIOLATIONS AND TO RECOVER DAMAGES UP TO
$500 DAMAGES, GREATER.OR ACTUAL WHICHEVER IS

(II) IF THE COURT FINDS THE DEFENDANT WILLFULLY OR
SUBTITLE,KNOWINGLY VIOLATED THIS THE COURT MAY AWARD DAMAGES UP TO
(I)THREE TIMES THE AMOUNT OF DAMAGES UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS
PARAGRAPH.

(b) There is a rebuttable presumption that a telephone solicitation made to any
area code in the State is made to a resident or a person who is reasonably presumed to
reside or have a place of business in the State at the time the call is made.

(c) This subtitle does not preclude the applicability of §§ 8–204 and 8–205 and
Title 13 of the Public Utilities Article to a telephone solicitation subject to this subtitle.

(D) EXCEPT § 14–4502(A)(3) SUBTITLE,AS PROVIDED IN OF THIS THE
REQUIREMENTS AND REMEDIES PROVIDED UNDER THIS SUBTITLE MAY NOT BE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 214 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

AGREEMENT,WAIVED BY AN UNLESS THE AGREEMENT IS PART OF A SETTLEMENT
ACTION.OF A LEGAL DISPUTE OR

(E) NOTHING IN THIS SUBTITLE PROHIBITS AN AGREEMENT FROM
ESTABLISHING MORE EXTENSIVE REQUIREMENTS OR REMEDIES THAN THE
SUBTITLE.REQUIREMENTS AND REMEDIES CONTAINED IN THIS

Article – Public Utilities

8–205.

(a) (1) In this section, “telephone solicitation” means an organized activity,
program, or campaign to communicate by telephone with residents of Maryland in order to:

(i) sell, lease, or rent goods or services;

(ii) attempt to sell, lease, or rent goods or services;

(iii) offer or attempt to offer a gift or prize;

(iv) conduct or attempt to conduct a poll; or

(v) request or attempt to request survey information, if the results
of the survey will be used directly to solicit persons to purchase, lease, or rent goods or
services.

(2) “Telephone solicitation” includes the act of managing, directing, or
supervising an individual engaged in telephone solicitation under paragraph (1) of this
subsection.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act is an emergency
measure, is necessary for the immediate preservation of the public health or safety, has
been passed by a yea and nay vote supported by three–fifths of all the members elected to
each of the two Houses of the General Assembly, and shall take effect from the date it is
enacted.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 4 –