PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1034

Chapter 1034

(House Bill 1205)

AN ACT concerning

Allegany County – Alcoholic Beverages – Class BWLT Beer, Wine, and Liquor
Tasting Permit

FOR the purpose of establishing a Class BWLT beer, wine, and liquor tasting permit to be
issued by the Board of License Commissioners for Allegany County; and generally
relating to alcoholic beverages in Allegany County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 9–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 9–1305
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

9–102.

This title applies only in Allegany County.

9–1305.

(A) THERE CLASS BWLT BEER, WINE, PERMIT.IS A AND LIQUOR TASTING

(B) THE BOARD BEER, WINE,MAY ISSUE THE PERMIT TO A HOLDER OF A
LICENSE.AND LIQUOR

(C) THE ON–PREMISESPERMIT AUTHORIZES THE HOLDER TO ALLOW THE
CONSUMPTION, TASTING, BEER, WINE, LIQUOR.FOR OF AND

(D) THE BOARD 7PERMIT HOLDER SHALL NOTIFY THE AT LEAST DAYS
HELD.BEFORE A TASTING EVENT IS TO BE
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1034 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(E) (1) THE CLASS BWLT BEER, WINE,ANNUAL FEE FOR A AND LIQUOR
$150.TASTING PERMIT IS

(2) THE TO:ANNUAL FEE IS IN ADDITION

(I) ONE–TIME $150 CLASS BWLTA ISSUING FEE OF FOR A NEW
BEER, WINE, PERMIT;AND LIQUOR TASTING AND

(II) BEER, WINE,THE ANNUAL FEE FOR THE UNDERLYING AND
LICENSE.LIQUOR

(F) THE BOARD SECTION.SHALL ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –