PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 991

Chapter 991

(House Bill 1213)

AN ACT concerning

Baltimore County – Sheriff – Salary

FOR the purpose of altering the annual salary of the Sheriff of Baltimore County; and
generally relating to the salary of the Sheriff of Baltimore County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 2–317(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 2–317(b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

2–317.

(a) This section applies only in Baltimore County.

[of]:(b) The Sheriff of Baltimore County shall receive an annual salary

OF $90,000 2024 2025;(1) FOR CALENDAR YEARS AND

(2) [$75,000] OF $138,000 [2007] 2026;for calendar year

[(2)] (3) [$80,000] OF $143,000 [2008] 2027;for calendar year

[(3)] (4) [$85,000] OF $150,000 [2009] 2028; [and]for calendar year

[(4)] (5) [$90,000] OF $157,500 [2010] 2029;for calendar year and

(6) SUBJECT § 35 ARTICLE III MARYLANDTO OF OF THE
CONSTITUTION, COUNTY COUNCIL BALTIMORE COUNTYAS THE OF PROVIDES IN
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 991 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

each subsequent calendar year.ITS ANNUAL BUDGET

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, in accordance with Article
III, § 35 of the Maryland Constitution, this Act may not be construed to extend or apply to
the salary or compensation of the Sheriff of Baltimore County while serving in a term of
office beginning before the effective date of this Act, but the provisions of this Act
concerning the salary or compensation of the Sheriff of Baltimore County shall take effect
at the beginning of the next following term of office. This limitation does not apply to an
individual appointed or elected after the effective date of this Act to fill out an unexpired
term.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –