PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 239

Chapter 239

(House Bill 1281)

AN ACT concerning

Economic Development – Tourism Zones – Designation and Benefits

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore City or the
governing body of a county or municipality to designate, by law, an area within that
political subdivision as a tourism zone under certain circumstances; providing that
the designation of an area as a tourism zone may not preclude the area from also
being designated as a certain arts and entertainment district; authorizing a county
or municipality to exempt from the admissions and amusement tax gross receipts
from certain admissions or amusement charges levied in a tourism zone; authorizing
the Mayor and City Council of Baltimore City or the governing body of a county or
municipality to grant, by law, a property tax credit against the county or municipal
property tax imposed on certain real property and certain personal property located
within a tourism zone; and generally relating to the designation of tourism zones
within counties and municipalities.

BY adding to
Article – Local Government
Section 18–401 through 18–403 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 4. Tourism
Zones”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Tax – General
Section 4–104(g)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Tax – Property
Section 9–268 and 9–269
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Local Government

SUBTITLE 4. TOURISM ZONES.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 239 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

18–401.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “QUALIFYING ENTERPRISE” FOR–PROFITTOURISM MEANS A OR
ZONE,NONPROFIT ENTITY THAT CONDUCTS BUSINESS WITHIN A TOURISM SUBJECT
TO THE LIMITATIONS SPECIFIED BY THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION WITHIN WHICH
LOCATED.THE TOURISM ZONE IS

(C) “TOURISM ZONE” MEANS A DEVELOPED ZONE OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
USES THAT IS DESIGNATED BY A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
SUBDIVISION.OF TRAVEL AND TOURISM AND LOCATED WITHIN THAT POLITICAL

18–402.

(A) THE MAYOR CITY COUNCIL BALTIMORE CITYAND OF OR THE
DESIGNATE, LAW,GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPALITY MAY BY AN
ZONE.AREA WITHIN THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION AS A TOURISM

(B) IN (A)DESIGNATING A TOURISM ZONE UNDER SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, PROVIDE, LAW, FOR:THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION MAY BY

(1) DESIGNATION;THE DURATION OF THE AND

(2) ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA TO QUALIFY AS A QUALIFYING TOURISM
ENTERPRISE.

(C) THE DESIGNATION OF AN AREA AS A TOURISM ZONE DOES NOT
PRECLUDE THE AREA FROM ALSO BEING DESIGNATED AS AN ARTS AND
TITLE 4, SUBTITLE 7 ECONOMICENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT UNDER OF THE
DEVELOPMENT ARTICLE.

18–403.

(A) IN ZONE:A TOURISM

(1) THE EXEMPTION FROM THE ADMISSIONS AND AMUSEMENT TAX
§ 4–104(G) TAX – GENERAL ARTICLEUNDER OF THE APPLIES TO QUALIFYING
ENTERPRISES;TOURISM AND

(2) §§ 9–268 9–269THE PROPERTY TAX CREDITS UNDER AND OF THE
TAX – PROPERTY ARTICLE APPLY.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 239

(B) ON JULY 1OR BEFORE PRECEDING THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF ITS
ESTABLISHMENT, COMPTROLLERTHE POLITICAL JURISDICTION SHALL NOTIFY THE
ESTABLISHED.THAT A TOURISM DISTRICT IS

(C) A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION THAT ESTABLISHES A TOURISM ZONE SHALL
COMPTROLLER OF:NOTIFY THE

(1) ANY QUALIFYING TOURISM ENTERPRISES TO WHICH THE
§ 4–104(G)EXEMPTION FROM THE ADMISSIONS AND AMUSEMENT TAX UNDER OF
TAX – GENERAL ARTICLE APPLIES;THE

(2) THE DATE ON WHICH THE QUALIFYING TOURISM ENTERPRISE
EXEMPTION;QUALIFIED FOR THE AND

(3) DATE, ANY,THE IF ON WHICH THE EXEMPTION FOR THE
EXPIRES.QUALIFYING TOURISM ENTERPRISE

Article – Tax – General

4–104.

(G) (1) IN SUBSECTION, “QUALIFYING ENTERPRISE”THIS TOURISM AND
“TOURISM ZONE” § 18–401 LOCALHAVE THE MEANINGS STATED IN OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE.

(2) (I) ~~A~~ SUBJECT (II) PARAGRAPH,TO SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS A
COUNTY OR A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION MAY EXEMPT FROM THE ADMISSIONS AND
AMUSEMENT TAX GROSS RECEIPTS FROM ANY ADMISSIONS OR AMUSEMENT CHARGE
ZONE.LEVIED BY A QUALIFYING TOURISM ENTERPRISE IN A TOURISM

(II) THE (I)EXEMPTION AUTHORIZED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH
STATEOF THIS PARAGRAPH DOES NOT APPLY TO THE ADMISSIONS AND AMUSEMENT
§ 4–102(D) (E) SUBTITLE.TAX IMPOSED UNDER AND OF THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – Tax – Property

9–268.

(A) IN SECTION, “QUALIFYING ENTERPRISE” “TOURISMTHIS TOURISM AND
ZONE” § 18–401 LOCAL GOVERNMENTHAVE THE MEANINGS STATED IN OF THE
ARTICLE.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 239 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) THE MAYOR CITY COUNCIL BALTIMORE CITYAND OF OR THE
GRANT, LAW,GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION MAY BY
A PROPERTY TAX CREDIT AGAINST THE COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
THAT:PROPERTY TAX IMPOSED ON A BUILDING

(1) ZONE;IS LOCATED IN A TOURISM AND

(2) ENTERPRISE.IS OWNED BY A QUALIFYING TOURISM

(C) THE MAYOR CITY COUNCIL BALTIMORE CITYAND OF OR THE
PROVIDE,GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION MAY BY
LAW, FOR:

(1) THE AMOUNT AND DURATION OF THE TAX CREDIT UNDER THIS
SECTION;

(2) ADDITIONAL ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE TAX CREDIT UNDER
SECTION;THIS

(3) REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR THE APPLICATION AND
CREDIT;UNIFORM PROCESSING OF REQUESTS FOR THE TAX AND

(4) ANY OTHER PROVISION NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE TAX
SECTION.CREDIT UNDER THIS

9–269.

(A) IN SECTION, “QUALIFYING ENTERPRISE” “TOURISMTHIS TOURISM AND
ZONE” § 18–401 LOCAL GOVERNMENTHAVE THE MEANINGS STATED IN OF THE
ARTICLE.

(B) THE MAYOR CITY COUNCIL BALTIMORE CITYAND OF OR THE
GRANT, LAW,GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION MAY BY
A PROPERTY TAX CREDIT AGAINST THE COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
PROPERTY TAX IMPOSED ON PERSONAL PROPERTY OF A QUALIFYING TOURISM
ZONE.ENTERPRISE THAT IS LOCATED WITHIN A TOURISM

(C) THE MAYOR CITY COUNCIL BALTIMORE CITYAND OF OR THE
PROVIDE,GOVERNING BODY OF A COUNTY OR MUNICIPAL CORPORATION MAY BY
LAW, FOR:

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 239

(1) THE AMOUNT AND DURATION OF THE TAX CREDIT UNDER THIS
SECTION;

(2) ADDITIONAL ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE TAX CREDIT UNDER
SECTION;THIS

(3) REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR THE APPLICATION AND
CREDIT;UNIFORM PROCESSING OF REQUESTS FOR THE TAX AND

(4) ANY OTHER PROVISION NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE TAX
SECTION.CREDIT UNDER THIS

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Section 2 of this Act shall be
applicable to all taxable years beginning after June 30, 2024.

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 5 –