PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 376

Chapter 376

(House Bill 1304)

AN ACT concerning

Maryland Department of Health and Department of ~~Human~~ ~~Services~~ Aging –
Earned Income Tax Credit – Distribution of Information and Training

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Department of Health ~~and~~ ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~
~~Human~~ ~~Services~~ ~~to~~ ~~provide~~ ~~information~~ ~~on~~ to develop a process for providing
information about the availability of the State’s earned income tax credits to
individuals enrolled or participating in certain programs or services, or potential
enrollees in certain programs, administered by the ~~departments;~~ Maryland
Department of Health; requiring the Department of Aging to provide training to the
Maryland Access Point network to increase awareness of the availability of the
State’s earned income tax credit; and generally relating to public assistance
programs.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 15–101(h), 15–301(a), 15–401(c), 15–601(d) and (e), and 15–1001(e)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 15–102.1(b)(18) and (19)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 15–102.1(b)(20), 15–301(e), 15–408, 15–605(h), and 15–1007
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY ~~adding~~ ~~to~~ repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Human Services
Section ~~2–304~~ 10–1002
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 376 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

15–101.

(h) “Program” means the Maryland Medical Assistance Program.

15–102.1.

(b) The Department shall, to the extent permitted, subject to the limitations of
the State budget:

(18) Establish mechanisms for aggressively pursuing recoveries against
third parties permitted under current law and exploring additional methods for seeking to
[and]recover other money expended by the Program;

(19) Take appropriate measures to assure the quality of health care services
organizations;provided by managed care AND

(20) ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ DEVELOP~~INFORMATION~~ ~~ON~~ A PROCESS FOR
STATE’SPROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AVAILABILITY OF THE EARNED
§ 10–704 TAX – GENERALINCOME TAX CREDIT ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
ARTICLE PROGRAM PROGRAMTO EACH ENROLLEE OR POTENTIAL ENROLLEE
PROGRAM.WHEN PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE

15–301.

(a) There is a Maryland Children’s Health Program.

(E) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~ON~~ DEVELOP A
STATE’SPROCESS FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AVAILABILITY OF THE
§ 10–704 TAX –EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
GENERAL ARTICLE PROGRAM PROGRAMTO EACH ENROLLEE OR POTENTIAL
PROGRAM.ENROLLEE WHEN PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE

15–401.

(c) “Program” means the Qualified State Long–Term Care Insurance
Partnership.

15–408.

THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~ON~~ DEVELOP A
STATE’SPROCESS FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AVAILABILITY OF THE
§ 10–704 TAX –EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
GENERAL ARTICLE PROGRAM PROGRAMTO EACH ENROLLEE OR POTENTIAL
PROGRAM.ENROLLEE WHEN PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE
– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 376

15–601.

(d) “Program” means the Prescription Drug Repository Program.

(e) “Repository” means a licensed pharmacy that:

(1) Does not have a final disciplinary order issued against it by the Board
of Pharmacy;

(2) Has voluntarily agreed to participate in the Program; and

(3) Has been approved by the Board to:

(i) Accept donated prescription drugs or medical supplies from a
designated drop–off site;

(ii) Dispense the donated prescription drugs or medical supplies to
needy individuals; or

(iii) Dispose of prescription drugs or medical supplies not accepted for
dispensing to needy individuals.

15–605.

(H) ~~A~~ THE~~REPOSITORY~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~ON~~
DEPARTMENT SHALL DEVELOP A PROCESS FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT
STATE’STHE AVAILABILITY OF THE EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT ESTABLISHED
§ 10–704 TAX – GENERAL ARTICLEUNDER OF THE TO EACH INDIVIDUAL RECEIVING
REPOSITORY.DONATED PRESCRIPTION DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES FROM THE

15–1001.

(e) “Program” means the Senior Prescription Drug Assistance Program
established under this subtitle.

15–1007.

THE DEPARTMENT SHALL ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~ON~~ DEVELOP A
STATE’SPROCESS FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION ABOUT THE AVAILABILITY OF THE
§ 10–704EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THE
TAX – GENERAL ARTICLE TO EACH INDIVIDUAL RECEIVING SERVICES UNDER THIS
SUBTITLE.

Article – Human Services

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 376 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~2–304.~~

~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~STATE’S~~~~SHALL~~ ~~DISTRIBUTE~~ ~~INFORMATION~~ ~~ON~~ ~~THE~~
~~§~~ ~~10–704~~~~EARNED~~ ~~INCOME~~ ~~TAX~~ ~~CREDIT~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~TAX~~ ~~–~~ ~~GENERAL~~ ~~ARTICLE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~RECEIVING~~ ~~ASSISTANCE~~ ~~FROM~~ ~~A~~
~~TITLE~~ ~~5~~ ~~TITLE~~ ~~6~~ ~~ARTICLE.~~~~PROGRAM~~ ~~OR~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~

10–1002.

(a) There is an Aging and Disability Resource Center Program, known as
“Maryland Access Point”, in the Department.

(b) The Program is the State’s Aging and Disability Resource Center for purposes
of the federal Older Americans Act Amendments of 2006.

(c) The purpose of the Program is to provide a coordinated system of information
and access for individuals seeking long–term services and supports, including in–home,
community–based, and institutional services.

THE DEPARTMENT(d) SHALL PROVIDE PERIODIC TRAINING TO THE
MARYLAND ACCESS POINT NETWORK TO INCREASE AWARENESS OF THE
STATE’SAVAILABILITY OF THE EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT ESTABLISHED UNDER
§ 10–704 TAX – GENERAL ARTICLE.OF THE

(E) The Department shall administer, supervise, and coordinate the Program
with the cooperation of the Department of Disabilities, the Department of Human Services,
the Governor’s Office of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing, and the Maryland Department of
Health.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 4 –