PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 787

Chapter 787

(House Bill 1333)

AN ACT concerning

Public Health – Maryland Commission on Health Equity ~~–~~ ~~Membership~~ ~~and~~
~~Statewide~~ ~~Health~~ ~~Equity~~ ~~Plan~~ and Commission on Public Health – Revisions

FOR the purpose of requiring the Maryland Commission on Health Equity to develop and
monitor a certain statewide health equity plan; requiring the Maryland Commission
on Health Equity to coordinate with the Maryland Department of Health and the
Health Services Cost Review Commission when establishing a certain advisory
committee; altering the reporting requirements for the Commission on Public
Health; and generally relating to the Maryland Commission on Health Equity and
the Commission on Public Health.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 13–4301 ~~and,~~ 13–4303 through 13–4306, and 13–5107
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 13–4302
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 385 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023
Section 2

Preamble

WHEREAS, The next phase of Maryland’s unique Total Cost of Care Model will
require the State to designate a governance structure to develop and implement a statewide
health equity plan; and

WHEREAS, The governance structure must be designated and begin its work on the
development of the statewide health equity plan before the 2025 legislative session; and

WHEREAS, The governance structure must meet specific federal requirements
regarding membership and duties; and

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 787 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

WHEREAS, The Maryland Commission on Health Equity is positioned to serve as
the governance structure for the statewide health equity plan required under the next
phase of the Total Cost of Care Model; now, therefore,

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

13–4301.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Commission” means the Maryland Commission on Health Equity.

(c) “Health equity framework” means a public health framework through which
policymakers and stakeholders in the public and private sectors use a collaborative
approach to improve health outcomes and reduce health inequities in the State by
incorporating health considerations into decision making across sectors and policy areas.

(D) “STATEWIDE PLAN”HEALTH EQUITY MEANS THE EQUITY PLAN
REQUIRED UNDER A COOPERATIVE GRANT FUNDING AGREEMENT WITH THE
CENTER MEDICARE MEDICAID INNOVATION.FOR AND

13–4302.

There is a Maryland Commission on Health Equity.

13–4303.

(a) The Commission consists of the following members:

(1) One member of the Senate, appointed by the President of the Senate;

(2) One member of the House of Delegates, appointed by the Speaker of the
House;

(3) THE SECRETARY, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

[(3)] (4) The Secretary of Aging, or the Secretary’s designee;

[(4) designee;]The Secretary of Agriculture, or the Secretary’s

(5) The Secretary of Budget and Management, or the Secretary’s designee;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 787

[(6) The Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary’s designee;

designee;](7) The Commissioner of Correction, or the Commissioner’s

[(8)] (6) The Secretary of Disabilities, or the Secretary’s designee;

[(9)] (7) The State Superintendent of Schools, or the State
Superintendent’s designee;

[(10) The Secretary of the Environment, or the Secretary’s designee;

(11) The Secretary of General Services, or the Secretary’s designee;

designee;](12) The Secretary, or the Secretary’s

[(13)] (8) The Secretary of Housing and Community Development, or the
Secretary’s designee;

[(14)] (9) The Secretary of Human Services, or the Secretary’s designee;

[(15) The Secretary of Information Technology, or the Secretary’s designee;

(16) The Secretary of Juvenile Services, or the Secretary’s designee;

(17) The Secretary of Labor, or the Secretary’s designee;

designee;](18) The Secretary of Natural Resources, or the Secretary’s

[(19)] (10) The Secretary of Planning, or the Secretary’s designee;

[(20) The Secretary of State Police, or the Secretary’s designee;

(21) The Secretary of Transportation, or the Secretary’s designee;

designee;](22) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or the Secretary’s

[(23)] (11) The Deputy Secretary for Behavioral Health, or the Deputy
Secretary’s designee;

[(24)] (12) The Deputy Secretary for Public Health Services, or the Deputy
Secretary’s designee;

(13) THE DEPUTY SECRETARY HEALTH CARE FINANCING,FOR OR
DEPUTY SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE;THE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 787 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(25)] (14) The Maryland Insurance Commissioner, or the Insurance
[and]Commissioner’s designee;

(15) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HEALTH SERVICES COSTOF THE
REVIEW COMMISSION, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

(16) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OFFICE MINORITYOF THE OF
HEALTH HEALTH DISPARITIES, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;AND OR THE

(17) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MARYLAND HEALTH CAREOF THE
COMMISSION, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

(18) THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MARYLAND COMMUNITYOF THE
HEALTH RESOURCES COMMISSION, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;OR THE

[(26)] ~~(18)~~ (19) One representative of a local health department,
Officers;designated by the Maryland Association of County Health AND

~~(19)~~ (20) THE MEMBERS,FOLLOWING APPOINTED BY THE
SECRETARY HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEWWITH THE ADVICE OF THE
COMMISSION:

(I) AT LEAST ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF HOSPITALS IN THE
STATE;

(II) AT LEAST TWO INDIVIDUALS WITH EXPERIENCE IN
HOSPITAL–BASED HEALTH;POPULATION

(III) AT LEAST ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A FEDERALLY
STATE;QUALIFIED HEALTH CENTER IN THE

(IV) AT COMMUNITY–BASEDLEAST TWO REPRESENTATIVES OF
ORGANIZATIONS;

(V) AT LEAST TWO PATIENTS FROM UNDERSERVED
COMMUNITIES;

(VI) AT LEAST ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A MANAGED CARE
ORGANIZATION;

(VII) AT LEAST ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A COMMERCIAL
INSURER;HEALTH

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 787

(VIII) AT LEAST TWO REPRESENTATIVES OF CLINICIANS AND
PROVIDERS WHO ARE NOT AFFILIATED WITH A HOSPITAL OR A FEDERALLY
CENTER;QUALIFIED HEALTH

(IX) AT STATE RURALLEAST ONE REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE
HEALTH OFFICE; AND

(X) AT LEAST ONE REPRESENTATIVE OF A TRIBAL COMMUNITY
STATE.IN THE

(b) To the extent practicable, the members appointed to the Commission shall
reflect the geographic, racial, ethnic, cultural, and gender diversity of the State.

(c) A majority of the members present at a meeting shall constitute a quorum.

(d) (1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Commission shall
determine the times, places, and frequency of its meetings.

(2) The Commission shall meet at least four times each year.

13–4304.

[(a) The Governor shall designate the chair of the Commission from among the
Commission.]members of the

(A) THE SECRETARY, SECRETARY’S DESIGNEE,OR THE AND THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEW COMMISSION,OF THE OR
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE, COMMISSION.THE SHALL COCHAIR THE

(b) A member of the Commission:

(1) May not receive compensation as a member of the Commission; but

(2) Is entitled to reimbursement for expenses under the Standard State
Travel Regulations, as provided in the State budget.

(c) The Department shall provide staff support for the Commission.

13–4305.

(a) The purpose of the Commission is to:

[examine]:(1) Employ a health equity framework to

(I) DEVELOP PLAN;A STATEWIDE HEALTH EQUITY AND

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 787 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) EXAMINE:

[(i)] 1. The health of residents of the State to the extent necessary
to carry out the requirements of this section;

[(ii)] 2. Ways for units of State and local government to
collaborate to implement policies that will positively impact the health of residents of the
State; and

[(iii)] 3. The impact of the following factors on the health of
residents of the State:

[1.] A. Access to safe and affordable housing;

[2.] B. Educational attainment;

[3.] C. Opportunities for employment;

[4.] D. Economic stability;

[5. Inclusion, diversity, and equity in the workplace;

6. Barriers to career success and promotion in the workplace;

7. Access to transportation and mobility;

justice;]8. Social

[9.] E. Environmental factors;

[10.] F. Public safety, including the impact of crime, citizen
unrest, the criminal justice system, and governmental policies that affect individuals who
are in prison or released from prison; and

[11.] G. Food insecurity;

STATE’S(2) Provide direct advice to the Secretary AND THE
COMMISSIONS, and indirect advice to theINDEPENDENT HEALTH REGULATORY
Department’s senior administrators and planners through the Secretary, regarding issues
of racial, ethnic, cultural, or socioeconomic health disparities;

(3) Facilitate coordination of the expertise and experience of the State’s
health and human services, housing, transportation, education, environment, community

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 787

development, and labor systems in developing a comprehensive health equity plan
addressing the social determinants of health; and

(4) Set goals for health equity and prepare a plan for the State to achieve
health equity in alignment with any other statewide planning activities.

(b) The Commission, using a health equity framework, shall:

(1) Examine and make recommendations regarding:

(i) Health considerations that may be incorporated into the
decision–making processes of government agencies and private sector stakeholders who
interact with government agencies;

(ii) Requirements for implicit bias training for clinicians engaged in
patient care and whether the State should provide the training;

(iii) Training for health care providers on consistent and proper
collection of patient self–identified race, ethnicity, and language data to identify disparities
accurately; and

(iv) Requirements to comply with, and for enforcement of, National
Standards for Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services in Health and Health
Care (CLAS Standards);

(2) Foster collaboration between units of the State and local government
and develop policies to improve health and reduce health inequities;

(3) Identify measures for monitoring and advancing health equity in the
State;

(4) Establish a State plan for achieving health equity in alignment with
other statewide planning activities in coordination with the State’s health and human
services, housing, transportation, education, environment, community development, and
[and]labor systems;

(5) Make recommendations and provide advice, including direct advice to
the Secretary, on implementing laws and policies to improve health and reduce health
inequities; AND

(6) DEVELOP AND MONITOR A STATEWIDE HEALTH EQUITY PLAN AS
CENTER MEDICARE MEDICAID INNOVATIONREQUIRED BY THE FOR AND UNDER
STATE CENTERSANY AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BETWEEN THE AND THE FOR
MEDICARE MEDICAID SERVICES.AND

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 787 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(c) (1) The Commission may establish advisory committees to assist the
Commission in the performance of its duties under this section.

(2) An advisory committee established under this subsection may include
individuals who are not members of the Commission.

13–4306.

DEPARTMENT,(a) (1) The Commission shall, in coordination with THE THE
HEALTH SERVICES COST REVIEW COMMISSION, the State designated healthAND
information exchange, establish an advisory committee to make recommendations on data
collection, needs, quality, reporting, evaluation, and visualization for the Commission to
carry out the purposes of this subtitle.

(2) The advisory committee shall include representatives from the State
designated health information exchange.

(3) The advisory committee shall define the parameters of a health equity
data set to be maintained by the State designated health information exchange, including
indicators for:

(i) Social and economic conditions;

(ii) Environmental conditions;

(iii) Health status;

(iv) Behaviors;

(v) Health care; and

(vi) Priority health outcomes for monitoring health equity for racial
and ethnic minority populations in the State.

(4) The data set for which parameters are defined under paragraph (3) of
this subsection shall include data from:

(i) Health care facilities that report to the Health Services Cost
Review Commission;

(ii) Health care payers that report to the Maryland Health Care
Commission; and

(iii) Any other data source the advisory committee determines
necessary.

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 787

(5) Data shall be reported in the aggregate if it is reported:

(i) To the public; or

(ii) From the State designated health information exchange to the
Commission.

(6) If the advisory committee makes a recommendation that data be made
available to the public, the recommendation shall comply with applicable federal and State
privacy law.

(b) (1) The Commission may request data consistent with the
recommendations of the advisory committee.

(2) Data requested by the Commission under paragraph (1) of this
subsection shall be provided, to the extent authorized by federal and State privacy law, to:

(i) The Commission; or

(ii) The State designated exchange.

(c) The Commission may publish or provide to the public any data collected under
this section consistent with the recommendations of the advisory committee established
under subsection (a) of this section.

13–5107.

(a) On or before December 1, 2023, the Commission shall submit an interim
report to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article,
the Senate Budget and Taxation Committee, the Senate Finance Committee, the House
Appropriations Committee, and the House Health and Government Operations Committee.

[a final](b) On or before December 1, 2024, the Commission shall submit AN
report of its findings and recommendations to the Governor and, in accordanceINTERIM
with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, the Senate Budget and Taxation
Committee, the Senate Finance Committee, the House Appropriations Committee, and the
House Health and Government Operations Committee.

(C) ON OCTOBER 1, 2025, COMMISSIONOR BEFORE THE SHALL SUBMIT A
GOVERNOR AND,FINAL REPORT OF ITS FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE
§ 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE THE
SENATE BUDGET TAXATION COMMITTEE, SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE,AND THE
HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE, HOUSE HEALTHTHE AND THE AND
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS COMMITTEE.

Chapter 385 of the Acts of 2023
– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 787 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
[2] 31, 2023. It shall remain effective for a period of years and 1 month and, at the end of
[2025] 2026,June 30, this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly,
shall be abrogated and of no further force and effect.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 10 –