PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 783

Chapter 783

(House Bill 1472)

AN ACT concerning

Professional and Volunteer Firefighter Innovative Cancer Screening
Technologies Program – Funding

FOR the purpose of authorizing the Governor, beginning in a certain fiscal year, to include
a certain amount in the annual budget for the Professional and Volunteer Firefighter
Innovative Cancer Screening Technologies Program; and generally relating to the
Professional and Volunteer Firefighter Innovative Cancer Screening Technologies
Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 13–4001
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 13–4006
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

13–4001.

In this subtitle, “Program” means the Professional and Volunteer Firefighter
Innovative Cancer Screening Technologies Program.

13–4006.

(1) [year thereafter] 2021(a) For fiscal 2021 and each fiscal year YEARS
2024, the Governor shall include at least $100,000 in the annual budget for theTHROUGH
Program.

(2) FOR 2025 THEREAFTER,FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR
GOVERNOR $500,000THE MAY INCLUDE AT LEAST IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET FOR THE
PROGRAM.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 783 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(b) Appropriations and expenditures made for the purpose of implementing the
Program, including the use of any funds received by a person under any component of the
Program, are subject to audit by the Office of Legislative Audits as provided in § 2–1220 of
the State Government Article.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –