PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

Chapter 836

(Senate Bill 134)

AN ACT concerning

Office of the ~~Attorney~~ ~~General~~ ~~–~~ Correctional Ombudsman ~~Unit~~ – Establishment
and Funding

FOR the purpose of establishing the Office of the Correctional Ombudsman ~~Unit~~ ~~in~~ ~~the~~
~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Attorney~~ ~~General;~~ authorizing the Justice Reinvestment Oversight
Board to make a recommendation for the distribution of money from the Performance
Incentive Grant Fund to the Office for a certain fiscal year; requiring the ~~Unit~~ Office
to conduct investigations, reviews, and assessments of administrative acts taken by
the Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services, the Department of
Juvenile Services, or in relation to individuals confined by ~~the~~ ~~Department~~ either
department; requiring the ~~Unit~~ Office to refer certain matters for criminal charges
or disciplinary proceedings; providing for the confidentiality of certain
communications with the Ombudsman; establishing the Correctional Ombudsman
Advisory Board; transferring the Juvenile Justice Monitoring Unit of the Office of
the Attorney General into the Office of the Correctional Ombudsman; authorizing
the Unit to subpoena an individual to give sworn testimony or produce documentary
evidence; prohibiting certain reprisals against employees of the Department of
Public Safety and Correctional Services or the Department of Juvenile Services who
provide certain information to the ~~Unit~~ Office; requiring the ~~Unit~~ Office to conduct
certain activities; and generally relating to the Office of the Correctional
Ombudsman ~~Unit.~~

BY renumbering
Article – State Government
Section 6–401 through 6–406 and the subtitle “Subtitle 4. Juvenile Justice
Monitoring Unit”
to be Section 9–3811 through 9–3816, respectively, and the part “Part II. Juvenile
Justice Monitoring Unit”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–3201
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–3207(b)
Annotated Code of Maryland
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Government
Section ~~6–901~~ ~~through~~ ~~6–907~~ 9–3801 through 9–3808 to be under the new subtitle
“Subtitle ~~9.~~ 38. Office of the Correctional Ombudsman ~~Unit”~~ and the part “Part
I. Established”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–3811 through 9–3813 and 9–3815
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)
(As enacted by Section 1 of this Act)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 9–3814 and 9–3816(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)
(As enacted by Section 1 of this Act)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 5–305
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That Section(s) 6–401 through 6–406 and the subtitle “Subtitle 4. Juvenile Justice
Monitoring Unit” of Article – State Government of the Annotated Code of Maryland be
renumbered to be Section(s) 9–3811 through 9–3816, respectively, and the part “Part II.
Juvenile Justice Monitoring Unit”.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Laws of Maryland read
as follows:

Article – State Government

9–3201.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Board” means the Justice Reinvestment Oversight Board.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

(c) “Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Governor’s Office of
Crime Prevention, Youth, and Victim Services.

(d) “Fund” means the Performance Incentive Grant Fund established in § 9–3209
of this subtitle.

9–3207.

(b) (1) In collaboration with the Department of Public Safety and Correctional
Services, the Board shall determine the annual savings from the implementation of the
recommendations of the Justice Reinvestment Coordinating Council based on the
difference between the prison population as measured on October 1, 2017, the baseline day,
and the prison population as measured on October 1, 2018, the comparison day, and the
variable cost of incarceration.

(2) If the prison population on the comparison day is less than the prison
population on the baseline day, the Board shall determine a savings based on the difference
in the prison population multiplied by the variable cost.

(3) The Board annually shall determine the difference between the prison
population on October 1, 2017, and the prison population on October 1 of the current year
and calculate any savings in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection.

(4) If a prison population decline causes a correctional unit, wing, or facility
to close, the Board shall conduct an assessment to determine the savings from the closure
and distribute the savings, realized annually, according to the schedule in paragraph (5) of
this subsection.

(5) The Board annually shall recommend that the savings identified in
paragraphs (2) through (4) of this subsection be distributed as follows:

(i) up to 50% of the savings shall be placed in the Performance
Incentive Grant Fund for purposes established under § 9–3209(b)(1) of this subtitle; and

(ii) subject to paragraph (6) of this subsection, the remaining savings
shall be used for additional services identified as reinvestment priorities in the Justice
Reinvestment Coordinating Council’s Final Report.

(6) The Board may recommend that a portion of the remaining savings
be:identified under paragraph (5)(ii) of this subsection

(I) used for the development and implementation of a
post–secondary education and workforce training program for each correctional institution
in the Division of Correction that provides inmates with the requisite training,
sectors;certifications, and experience to obtain careers in in–demand job OR

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) 2025 ONLY, OFFICEFOR FISCAL YEAR DISTRIBUTED TO THE
CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN.OF THE

SUBTITLE ~~9.~~ 38. OFFICE CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN ~~UNIT.~~OF THE

PART I. ESTABLISHED.

~~6–901.~~ 9–3801.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “ADMINISTRATIVE ACT” ACTION, DECISION,MEANS ANY
ADJUDICATION, ACT, OMISSION, REGULATION,FAILURE TO RULE OR
INTERPRETATION, RECOMMENDATION, POLICY, PRACTICE, OR PROCEDURE OF AN
AGENCY.

(C) (1) “AGENCY” MEANS:

(I) DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETYTHE OF AND
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~JUVENILE~~ ~~SERVICES;~~~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~

(II) DEPARTMENTANY OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE OF THE OF
PUBLIC SAFETY CORRECTIONAL SERVICES ~~DEPARTMENT~~AND ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~JUVENILE~~ ~~SERVICES;~~

(III) ANY PERSON PROVIDING SERVICES UNDER A CONTRACT
DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETY CORRECTIONAL SERVICESWITH THE OF AND ~~OR~~
~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~JUVENILE~~ ~~SERVICES~~~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ TO INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE CONFINED
~~DEPARTMENT~~BY OR UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF ~~THE~~ ~~EITHER~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ THE
DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETY CORRECTIONAL SERVICES;OF AND OR

(IV) OFFICER, EMPLOYEE,ANY OR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
STATEEXAMINER OF THE OR A UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT WHO IS ACTING OR
PURPORTING TO ACT IN RELATION TO INDIVIDUALS CONFINED BY OR UNDER THE
DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETY CORRECTIONALSUPERVISION OF THE OF AND
SERVICES ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~JUVENILE~~ ~~SERVICES.~~~~OR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~

(2) “AGENCY” INCLUDE:DOES NOT

(I) JUDGE, § 1–101 COURTS ARTICLE,A AS DEFINED IN OF THE
JUDICIARY;OR ANY OTHER EMPLOYEE OF THE

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

(II) GENERAL ASSEMBLY MEMBER, EMPLOYEE,THE OR ANY OR
GENERAL ASSEMBLY;COMMITTEE OF THE OR

(III) GOVERNOR GOVERNOR’S STAFF.THE OR THE PERSONAL

(D) (1) “COMPLAINT” COMMUNICATION:MEANS ANY

(I) FROM OR ON BEHALF OF AN INDIVIDUAL CONFINED BY OR
AGENCY;UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF AN AND

(II) INDIVIDUAL’SALLEGING A VIOLATION OF THE RIGHTS OR
LAW, REGULATION, STANDARD:ANY APPLICABLE OR

1. AGENCY;BY THE AND

2. INDIVIDUAL.THAT IMPACTED THE

(2) “COMPLAINT” DOES NOT INCLUDE A DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDING
INDIVIDUAL.OF AN INCARCERATED

(E) “OFFICE” OFFICE CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN.MEANS THE OF THE

(F) “RECORDS” MATERIALS,MEANS ALL REGARDLESS OF PHYSICAL FORM
CHARACTERISTICS, CREATED, GENERATED, RECORDED, RECEIVED, POSSESSED,OR
AGENCY.OR CONTROLLED BY OR ON BEHALF OF ANY

~~(F)~~ ~~“UNIT”~~ ~~CORRECTIONAL~~ ~~OMBUDSMAN~~ ~~UNIT~~ ~~OFFICE~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL.~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~6–902.~~ 9–3802.

THERE OFFICE CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN ~~UNIT~~IS ~~A~~ AN OF THE ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~
~~OFFICE~~ ~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ESTABLISHED AS AN INDEPENDENT UNIT OF
STATE GOVERNMENT.

~~6–903.~~ 9–3803.

(A) THE ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE INCLUDE:SHALL

(1) FULL–TIME CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN;A ~~AND~~

(2) STATE BUDGET;STAFF AS PROVIDED IN THE AND

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(3) JUVENILE JUSTICE MONITORING UNIT §THE ESTABLISHED IN
9–3812 SUBTITLE.OF THIS

(B) (1) THE ~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~ GOVERNOR SHALL APPOINT THE
CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN SENATE.WITH THE ADVICE AND CONSENT OF THE

(2) THE CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN SHALL SERVE FOR A TERM OF
5 YEARS.

(3) AT TERM, CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMANTHE END OF A THE
QUALIFIES.CONTINUES TO SERVE UNTIL A SUCCESSOR IS APPOINTED AND

(C) SALARIES OMBUDSMAN RENT,OF THE AND STAFF AND EXPENSES FOR
EQUIPMENT, SUPPLIES, AND GENERAL OPERATING EXPENSES NECESSARY FOR THE
~~UNIT~~ OFFICE STATE BUDGET.WORK OF THE SHALL BE AS PROVIDED IN THE

~~(D)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~BUDGET~~~~COOPERATION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AND~~
~~MANAGEMENT,~~ ~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~ ~~SALARIES,~~~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~SET~~ ~~MINIMUM~~
~~QUALIFICATIONS,~~ ~~AND~~ ~~STANDARDS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~TRAINING~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EXPERIENCE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~POSITIONS~~
~~UNIT.~~~~WITH~~ ~~THE~~

~~6–904.~~ 9–3804.

(A) THE ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE, IN RESPONSE TO A COMPLAINT OR ON THE
OMBUDSMAN’S INITIATIVE, SHALL:

(1) OMBUDSMANINVESTIGATE ANY ADMINISTRATIVE ACT THAT THE
BE:DETERMINES MAY

(I) REGULATION;CONTRARY TO LAW OR

(II) FACT;BASED ON A MISTAKE OF

(III) EVIDENCE;UNSUPPORTED BY SUFFICIENT

(IV) MANNER;PERFORMED IN AN INEFFICIENT

(V) UNREASONABLE UNDER THE TOTALITY OF THE
CIRCUMSTANCES; OR

(VI) ERRONEOUS;OTHERWISE

(2) OF:CONDUCT INDEPENDENT REVIEWS AND ASSESSMENTS

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

(I) SERVICES,HEALTH INCLUDING SUBSTANCE ~~ABUSE~~ USE
TREATMENT,DISORDER ASSESSMENTS AND PROVIDED TO INDIVIDUALS CONFINED
AGENCY;BY ANY

(II) MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES PROVIDED TO INDIVIDUALS
AGENCY;CONFINED BY ANY

(III) EXPAND, RENOVATE,PLANS BY AGENCIES TO OR CLOSE
FACILITIES;

(IV) EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR
AGENCY;INDIVIDUALS CONFINED BY ANY AND

(V) AGENCY POLICIES ON RESTRICTIVE OR PROTECTIVE
HOUSING;

(3) COOPERATE WITH ANY AGENCY IN EFFORTS TO IMPROVE THE
AGENCIES;FUNCTIONING OF ANY AGENCY OR PREVENT ABUSES BY

(4) INSPECT ANY FACILITIES OWNED OR CONTROLLED BY ANY
FACILITIES;AGENCY TO MONITOR CONDITIONS IN THE

(5) SEEK TO RESOLVE COMPLAINTS AGAINST AN AGENCY THROUGH
METHODS;MEDIATION OR OTHER CONFLICT RESOLUTION

(6) THAT:MAINTAIN A WEBSITE

(I) ~~(E)~~ (F)SUBJECT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SUBSECTION OF
SECTION, PUBLIC;THIS MAKES CURRENT AND PAST REPORTS AVAILABLE TO THE
AND

(II) ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE;PROVIDES CONTACT INFORMATION FOR THE
AND

(7) ADOPT REGULATIONS NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE
SUBTITLE.REQUIREMENTS OF THIS

(B) (1) THE ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE SHALL INVESTIGATE EACH COMPLAINT ABOUT
ACT, ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE THAT:AN ADMINISTRATIVE UNLESS THE DETERMINES

(I) THE COMPLAINT COULD BE ADDRESSED THROUGH
PROCESS;ANOTHER

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(II) TRIVIAL, FRIVOLOUS, VEXATIOUS,THE COMPLAINT IS OR
FAITH;NOT MADE IN GOOD

(III) THE COMPLAINANT UNREASONABLY DELAYED IN BRINGING
COMPLAINT;THE OR

(IV) ~~THE~~ ~~COMPLAINANT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~PERSONALLY~~ ~~AFFECTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~ACT;~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE~~ ~~OR~~

~~(V)~~ ~~UNIT~~ OFFICETHE LACKS SUFFICIENT RESOURCES TO
COMPLAINT.INVESTIGATE THE

(2) THE ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE SHALL PROMPTLY INFORM A COMPLAINANT OF
COMPLAINT.A DECISION NOT TO INVESTIGATE A

(3) ON REQUEST, ~~UNIT~~ OFFICETHE SHALL PROMPTLY INFORM A
INVESTIGATION.COMPLAINANT OF THE STATUS OF AN

(4) ON THE COMPLETION OF AN INVESTIGATION BASED ON A
COMPLAINT, ~~UNIT~~ OFFICETHE SHALL PROMPTLY INFORM THE COMPLAINANT OF
CONCLUSIONS, RECOMMENDATIONS,ANY AND ACTIONS TAKEN IN RESPONSE TO THE
COMPLAINT.

(C) ~~(1)~~ IF ~~UNIT~~ OFFICETHE DETERMINES THAT AN EMPLOYEE OR AGENT
OF AN AGENCY ACTED IN A MANNER WARRANTING CRIMINAL CHARGES OR
PROCEEDINGS, ~~UNIT~~ OFFICEDISCIPLINARY THE SHALL PROMPTLY REFER THE
AUTHORITIES.MATTER TO APPROPRIATE

~~(2)~~ ~~IF~~ ~~UNIT~~ ~~OFFICE~~~~THE~~ ~~REFERS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MATTER~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL,~~ ~~A~~ ~~SPECIAL~~ ~~ASSISTANT~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~REVIEW~~ ~~THE~~
~~MATTER.~~

(D) THE ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE MAY:

(1) INTERVIEW AGENCY PERSONNEL OR ANY INDIVIDUAL CONFINED
AGENCY;BY AN

(2) AGENCY;ACCESS ANY RECORDS MAINTAINED BY AN

(3) ON–SITEPERFORM UNANNOUNCED SITE VISITS AND INSPECTIONS
AGENCY;OF FACILITIES MAINTAINED BY AN

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

(4) RECEIVE AND RESPOND TO COMPLAINTS WITHOUT
INTERCEPTION, REVIEW, AGENCY;OR INTERFERENCE BY AN

(5) ~~SUBPOENA~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~INDIVIDUAL~~ ~~TO~~ ~~APPEAR~~ ~~TO~~ ~~GIVE~~ ~~SWORN~~
~~TESTIMONY~~ ~~OR~~ ~~PRODUCE~~ ~~DOCUMENTARY~~ ~~EVIDENCE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~IS~~ ~~REASONABLY~~
~~UNIT’S~~ ~~DUTIES;~~~~NECESSARY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~CARRY~~ ~~OUT~~ ~~THE~~

~~(6)~~ ACTIONS, GRIEVANCES,REVIEW ALL REPORTS OF DISCIPLINARY
AGENCY;AND GRIEVANCE DISPOSITIONS BY THE AND

~~(7)~~ (6) STATECOLLABORATE WITH ANY AGENCY OR ANY UNIT OF
INJURY, NEGLECT,GOVERNMENT TO INVESTIGATE COMPLAINTS OR ANY ALLEGED
OR DEATH OF AN INDIVIDUAL CONFINED BY OR UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF AN
AGENCY.

(E) (1) THE OFFICE MAY SUBPOENA ANY INDIVIDUAL TO APPEAR TO GIVE
SWORN TESTIMONY OR PRODUCE DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE THAT IS REASONABLY
OFFICE’S DUTIES.NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE

(2) IF AN INDIVIDUAL FAILS OR REFUSES TO COMPLY WITH A
OFFICE, JURISDICTION,SUBPOENA ISSUED BY THE A COURT OF COMPETENT ON THE
OFFICE,APPLICATION OF THE MAY ISSUE AN ATTACHMENT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL
SUBPOENA,AND COMPEL THE INDIVIDUAL TO COMPLY WITH THE APPEAR BEFORE
OFFICE,THE AND PRODUCE DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE FOR EXAMINATION AND GIVE
TESTIMONY.

(3) IF AN INDIVIDUAL DISOBEYS A SUBPOENA OR REFUSES TO
TESTIFY, CONTEMPT.THE COURT MAY PUNISH THE INDIVIDUAL FOR

~~(E)~~ (F) IN SUBTITLE,PERFORMING THE DUTIES ASSIGNED UNDER THIS
~~UNIT~~ OFFICE ~~OFFICE~~ ~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~THE ~~AND~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ SHALL TREAT ALL
COMPLAINTS AS CONFIDENTIAL AND MAY REVEAL THE DETAILS OF ANY
IS:COMPLAINTS ONLY IF IT

(1) ~~UNIT’S~~ OFFICE’S DUTIES;NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE AND

(2) STATEDONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPLICABLE AND FEDERAL
LAW.

~~6–905.~~ 9–3805.

(A) WITHIN 30 INVESTIGATION, ~~UNIT~~DAYS AFTER COMPLETING AN THE
OFFICE CONCLUSIONS,SHALL SUBMIT TO AN AGENCY A REPORT CONTAINING ANY
RECOMMENDATIONS, AGENCY.AND REQUESTS FOR A RESPONSE FROM THE
– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) IF THE REPORT SUBMITTED TO AN AGENCY UNDER THIS SECTION
AGENCY,CONTAINS A REQUEST FOR A RESPONSE FROM THE THE AGENCY SHALL
~~30~~ 45PROVIDE A WRITTEN RESPONSE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT OF THE
REPORT.

(C) THE ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE MAY PROVIDE THE REPORT REQUIRED BY THIS
SECTION, AGENCY, GOVERNOR OR,AS WELL AS ANY RESPONSES BY THE TO THE IN
§ 2–1257 ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLY.ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS THE

~~6–906.~~ 9–3806.

(A) ON DECEMBER 31 YEAR, ~~UNIT~~ OFFICEOR BEFORE EACH THE SHALL
GOVERNOR AND, § 2–1257 ARTICLE,REPORT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS
GENERAL ASSEMBLY ON:THE

(1) ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE;INVESTIGATIONS CONDUCTED BY THE

(2) ANY ACTIONS TAKEN BY AN AGENCY AS A RESULT OF THE
~~UNIT~~ OFFICE;CONCLUSIONS OR RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE

(3) ANY INSTANCE WHERE AN AGENCY REJECTS A RECOMMENDATION
~~UNIT~~ OFFICE;OR CONCLUSION OF THE AND

(4) INFORMATION ON ANY DEATH OF AN INDIVIDUAL CONFINED BY OR
AGENCY.UNDER THE CARE OF AN

(B) IN (A)ADDITION TO THE REPORT REQUIRED BY SUBSECTION OF THIS
SECTION, ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE GOVERNOR AND,THE SHALL PROVIDE TO THE IN
§ 2–1257 ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYACCORDANCE WITH OF THIS THE ANY
GOVERNOR GENERAL ASSEMBLY REQUIRE.OTHER REPORTS THAT THE OR THE MAY

(C) A REPORT PREPARED UNDER THIS SECTION SHALL BE PUBLISHED ON
~~UNIT’S~~ OFFICE’S WEBSITE.THE

~~6–907.~~ 9–3807.

(A) IN SECTION, “BOARD” CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMANTHIS MEANS THE
ADVISORY BOARD.

(B) THERE CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN ADVISORY BOARD.IS A

(C) THE BOARD TO:~~PURPOSE~~ PURPOSES OF THE ~~IS~~ ARE

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

(1) ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE;PROVIDE INFORMATION TO THE AND

(2) ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE IN:ASSIST THE

(I) INVESTIGATE;IDENTIFYING APPROPRIATE MATTERS TO
AND

(II) DEVELOPING PROCESSES BY WHICH COMPLAINTS ARE
SUBMITTED, REVIEWED, INVESTIGATED, RESOLVED.AND

(D) THE BOARD ~~10~~ 12SHALL CONSIST OF MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE
~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~ GOVERNOR.

(E) TO PRACTICABLE, ~~ATTORNEY~~ ~~GENERAL~~ GOVERNORTHE EXTENT THE
BOARDSHALL ENSURE THAT THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE INCLUDES
~~OF:~~~~REPRESENTATIVES~~

(1) INDIVIDUALS;FAMILY MEMBERS OF CONFINED

(2) CITIZENS;RETURNING

(3) OFFICERS;NONSUPERVISORY CORRECTIONAL

(4) MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WITH A DEMONSTRATED INTEREST IN
CORRECTIONS; ~~AND~~

(5) INDIVIDUALS WITH BACKGROUNDS IN HEALTH CARE AND SOCIAL
WORK.; ~~AND~~

(6) INDIVIDUALS WITH BACKGROUNDS IN MENTAL HEALTH CARE AND
TREATMENT.;SUBSTANCE ~~ABUSE~~ USE DISORDER AND

(7) AT LEAST TWO INDIVIDUALS WITH EXPERIENCE MANAGING A
AGENCY.LARGE GOVERNMENT

(F) (1) THE BOARD MAY NOT INCLUDE MORE THAN THREE MEMBERS WHO
DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETYARE CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES OF THE OF
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES.AND

(2) NO BOARDMEMBER OF THE MAY BE CURRENTLY EMPLOYED BY
DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETY CORRECTIONAL SERVICESTHE OF AND IN A
CAPACITY.SUPERVISORY

– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(F)~~ (G) A BOARDMEMBER OF THE SERVES AT THE PLEASURE OF THE
GOVERNOR.

~~(F)~~ ~~(G)~~ (H) THE ~~UNIT~~ OFFICE BOARD.SHALL PROVIDE STAFF FOR THE

9–3808.

(A) THE OFFICE SOURCES,SHALL REVIEW POTENTIAL FEDERAL FUNDING
JUSTICE REINVESTMENT INITIATIVEINCLUDING GRANTS OFFERED UNDER THE
SECOND CHANCE ACT.AND THE

(B) THE OFFICE SOURCES.MAY APPLY FOR RELEVANT FUNDING

9–3809. RESERVED.

9–3810. RESERVED.

Part II. Juvenile Justice Monitoring Unit.

9–3811.

[subtitle](a) In this the following words have the meanings indicated.PART

(b) “Department” means the Department of Juvenile Services.

(c) “Disciplinary action” means any punitive action against a child that results in
more security, additional obligations, or less personal freedom.

(d) “Deputy Director” means the Deputy Director of the Division of Children and
Youth of the Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention, Youth, and Victim Services.

(e) “Facility” means:

(1) a residential facility operated by the Department;

(2) a residential facility owned by the Department but privately operated;
and

(3) a residential facility licensed by the Department.

(f) (1) “Grievance” means a complaint made by a child or on behalf of a child
due to a circumstance or an action considered to be unjust.

(2) “Grievance” does not include an employee grievance, disciplinary
appeal, or complaint.

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

(g) “Juvenile justice monitor” means an individual employed by the Office of the
[Attorney General] CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN to determine whether the needs of
children under the jurisdiction of the Department are being met in compliance with State
law, that their rights are being upheld, and that they are not being abused.

(h) “Secretary” means the Secretary of Juvenile Services.

[of(i) “Unit” means the Juvenile Justice Monitoring Unit of the Office the
General].Attorney

9–3812.

[Attorney(a) There is a Juvenile Justice Monitoring Unit of the Office of the
General] CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN.

(b) The function of the Unit is to investigate and determine whether the needs of
children under the jurisdiction of the Department of Juvenile Services are being met in
compliance with State law, that their rights are being upheld, and that they are not being
abused.

9–3813.

(a) The Unit shall include:

(1) a full–time Director of Juvenile Justice Monitoring; and

(2) staff, including juvenile justice monitors, as provided in the State
budget.

(b) Salaries of the Director and juvenile justice monitors and expenses for rent,
equipment, supplies, and general operating expenses necessary for the work of the Unit
shall be as provided in the State budget.

[Attorney(c) In cooperation with the Secretary of Budget and Management, the
General] CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN shall set minimum salaries, qualifications, and
standards of training and experience for positions with the Unit.

9–3814.

The Unit shall:

(1) evaluate at each facility:

(i) the child advocacy grievance process;

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) the Department’s monitoring process;

(iii) the treatment of and services to youth;

(iv) the physical conditions of the facility; and

(v) the adequacy of staffing;

(2) review all reports of disciplinary actions, grievances, and grievance
dispositions received from each facility and alterations in the status or placement of a child
that result in more security, additional obligations, or less personal freedom;

(3) receive copies of the grievances submitted to the Department;

(4) perform unannounced site visits and on–site inspections of facilities;

(5) receive and review all incident reports submitted to the Department
from facilities;

(6) receive reports of the findings of child protective services investigations
of allegations of abuse or neglect of a child in a facility;

(7) ensure that each facility is in compliance with the regulations
applicable to residential facilities;

(8) monitor the implementation of educational programs at each
residential facility;

(9) collaborate with the Department, the Department of Human Services,
the Maryland Department of Health, and the Division of Children and Youth of the
Governor’s Office of Crime Prevention, Youth, and Victim Services in all matters related to
the licensing and monitoring of children’s residential facilities; and

(10) have a representative available to attend meetings of the advisory
boards established under § 9–230 of the Human Services Article and meetings of the
Juvenile Services Education Board established under § 9–502 of the Human Services
Article.

9–3815.

(A) The Unit may:

(1) review relevant laws, policies, procedures, and juvenile justice records,
including records relating to individual youth;

(2) on request, conduct interviews with staff, youth, and others;

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

(3) review investigative reports produced by the Department relating to
youth in facilities; and

(4) participate, within the context of the local department of social services’
multidisciplinary team process, in a child protective services investigation conducted under
Title 5, Subtitle 7 of the Family Law Article concerning any allegation of abuse or neglect
within any assigned facility.

(B) (1) THE UNIT MAY SUBPOENA ANY INDIVIDUAL TO APPEAR TO GIVE
SWORN TESTIMONY OR PRODUCE DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE THAT IS REASONABLY
UNIT’S DUTIES.NECESSARY TO CARRY OUT THE

(2) IF AN INDIVIDUAL FAILS OR REFUSES TO COMPLY WITH A
UNIT, JURISDICTION,SUBPOENA ISSUED BY THE A COURT OF COMPETENT ON THE
UNIT,APPLICATION OF THE MAY ISSUE AN ATTACHMENT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL AND
SUBPOENA,COMPEL THE INDIVIDUAL TO COMPLY WITH THE AND APPEAR BEFORE
UNITTHE AND PRODUCE DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE FOR EXAMINATION AND GIVE
TESTIMONY.

(3) IF AN INDIVIDUAL DISOBEYS A SUBPOENA OR REFUSES TO
TESTIFY, CONTEMPT.THE COURT MAY PUNISH THE INDIVIDUAL FOR

9–3816.

(a) The Unit shall report in a timely manner to the Deputy Director, the
Secretary, and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of this article, the Speaker of the House of
Delegates and the President of the Senate:

(1) knowledge of any problem regarding the care, supervision, and
treatment of children in facilities;

(2) findings, actions, and recommendations, related to the investigations of
disciplinary actions, grievances, incident reports, and alleged cases of child abuse and
neglect; and

(3) all other findings and actions related to the monitoring required under
this subtitle.

Article – State Personnel and Pensions

5–305.

Subject to the limitations of § 5–306 of this subtitle, a supervisor, appointing
authority, or the head of a principal unit may not take or refuse to take any personnel
action as a reprisal against:
– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 836 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) an employee who discloses information that the employee reasonably
believes evidences:

(i) an abuse of authority, gross mismanagement, or gross waste of
money;

(ii) a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety; or

(iii) a violation of law;

(2) an employee of the Department of Juvenile Services who discloses
OFFICEinformation to the Director of Juvenile Justice Monitoring or staff of the OF THE
CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN, Juvenile Justice Monitoring UnitINCLUDING THE
§ 9–3814relating to the Unit’s duties under ~~§~~ ~~6–404(1)~~ of the State Government Article;
[or]

(3) DEPARTMENT PUBLIC SAFETYAN EMPLOYEE OF THE OF AND
CORRECTIONAL SERVICES CORRECTIONALWHO DISCLOSES INFORMATION TO THE
OMBUDSMAN OFFICE CORRECTIONAL OMBUDSMAN ~~UNIT~~OR STAFF OF THE OF THE
~~UNIT’S~~ OFFICE’S ~~§~~ ~~6–904~~ § 9–3804 STATERELATING TO THE DUTIES UNDER OF THE
GOVERNMENT ARTICLE; OR

[(3)] (4) [(1) or] (1),an employee who, following a disclosure under item
(2), (3) of this section, seeks a remedy provided under this subtitle or any other law orOR
policy governing the employee’s unit.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the Governor shall transfer
four positions and $603,067 in general funds for the Juvenile Justice Monitoring Unit as of
July 1, 2024, from C81C00.12 Office of the Attorney General – Juvenile Justice Monitoring
Unit to the Office of the Correctional Ombudsman established under Section 2 of this Act.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That it is the intent of the
General Assembly that the Governor shall include in the State budget for fiscal year 2025
and each subsequent fiscal year an appropriation in an amount sufficient to fund the
provisions of this Act and to provide for at least two staff members of the Office of the
Correctional Ombudsman ~~Unit~~ in 2025 and at least seven staff members of the ~~Unit~~ Office
in 2026 and each subsequent fiscal year.

SECTION ~~3.~~ 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That on or before December 31,
2024, the Office of the Correctional Ombudsman ~~Unit~~ and the Commission on Correctional
Standards shall submit a joint report to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of
the State Government Article, the General Assembly detailing how the Office ~~Correctional~~
~~Ombudsman~~ ~~Unit~~ and the Commission will coordinate in order to avoid overlap in their
duties.

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 836

SECTION ~~4.~~ 6. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That on or before December 31,
2024, the Mediation and Conflict Resolution Office shall report to the Office of the
Correctional Ombudsman ~~Unit,~~ the Governor, and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
Government Article, the General Assembly on best practices for mediating grievances in
the corrections system.

SECTION ~~5.~~ 7. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That it is the intent of the
General Assembly that, in its first year of operation, the Office of the Correctional
Ombudsman ~~Unit~~ focus its activities primarily on those State correctional facilities located
in the area of Jessup, Maryland.

SECTION ~~6.~~ 8. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That it is the intent of the
General Assembly that, in its first year of operation, the Office of the Correctional
Ombudsman ~~Unit~~ conduct an audit of programming and services provided by the Division
of Corrections since fiscal year 2019. This audit shall include, among other things, an
examination of:

(1) rates of participation by incarcerated individuals in:

(i) educational and vocational training;

(ii) evidence–based behavioral health and substance ~~abuse~~ use
disorder counseling; and

(iii) mentoring and reentry programs; and

(2) any obstacles to participation by incarcerated individuals in programs
provided by the Division.

SECTION ~~7.~~ 9. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 17 –