PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 423

Chapter 423

(Senate Bill 258)

AN ACT concerning

Department of General Services – State Buildings and Facilities – Energy
Conservation and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions

FOR the purpose of altering the State’s goals for reducing energy consumption in State
buildings; requiring the Maryland Green Building Council to update the High
Performance Green Building Program to ensure that the Program aligns with certain
greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals; requiring the Department of General
Services to identify State–owned facilities that are potential candidates for energy
performance contracts; altering requirements for certain energy audits, data
collection processes, and requests for proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions
from State facilities; requiring each unit of State government to implement projects
and initiatives to conserve energy and reduce the unit’s greenhouse gas emissions;
and generally relating to the conservation of energy in, and reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions from, State buildings and facilities.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 4–806
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Finance and Procurement

4–806.

(a) So that it can audit and evaluate competing design proposals, the Department
shall set standards for energy performance indices.

(b) As experience develops on the energy performance achieved in State buildings,
the energy performance indices will serve as a measure of building performance with
respect to energy consumption.

(c) The Department, in cooperation with the Maryland Energy Administration,
[2029] 2031,shall assist State agencies in reducing, by the average energy consumption
[10%] 20%in State buildings by from the level in fiscal year 2018.

[(d) Each year, the Department shall:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 423 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) analyze all State–owned buildings to identify which buildings are the
least energy–efficient; and

(2) conduct an energy audit of at least 2,000,000 square feet of the least
energy–efficient State–owned buildings.

(e) The energy audit shall identify low–cost measures for increasing energy
efficiency that, over the following 5 years, will result in energy cost savings that meet or
exceed the costs of the measures.

(f) The Department shall provide a copy of the energy audit to the head of each
unit of State government that occupies the spaces audited.

(g) Each unit of State government that occupies the space audited shall
implement the measures identified in the energy audit to the fullest extent practicable.

(h) For 1 year following the implementation of the measures identified in the
energy audit, the Department shall:

(1) monitor the unit’s energy use;

(2) track any changes resulting from the measures; and

(3) calculate any savings on energy costs.

(i) (1) In this subsection, “Database” means the Comprehensive Utility
Records Management Database.

(2) The Department shall establish and maintain the Comprehensive
Utility Records Management Database for the purpose of tracking the changes in energy
consumption resulting from the implementation of the measures identified in the energy
audit.

(3) The Department shall collect the data and information necessary to
fully populate, update, and maintain the Database.

(4) Each month, each unit of State government shall make available to the
Department all available data about its facilities and copies of the unit’s utility bills.

(j) Each unit of State government shall, in support of the unit’s core missions,
implement projects and initiatives to conserve energy and reduce energy consumption.

(k) The Department, the Maryland Energy Administration, the Department of
Budget and Management, and the Department of Information Technology shall collaborate

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 423

on designing and implementing other cost–effective and energy–efficient savings
initiatives.

(l) Beginning July 1, 2020, provisions promoting the State’s energy efficiency
goals shall be included in requests for proposals that:

(1) are for the leasing of space to the State; and

(2) would obligate the State to pay the utility bills for the leased space.

(m) Each fiscal year, with the advice and assistance of the Maryland Energy
Administration, the Department shall report to the Governor on the State’s progress
10%.]toward achieving the goal of reducing energy consumption in State buildings by

(D) ON OCTOBER 1, 2024, MARYLAND GREEN BUILDINGOR BEFORE THE
COUNCIL SHALL:

(1) HIGH PERFORMANCE GREEN BUILDING PROGRAMUPDATE THE
§ 3–602.1AUTHORIZED UNDER OF THIS ARTICLE TO ENSURE THAT ALL NEW
PROGRAMBUILDINGS AND MAJOR RENOVATIONS SUBJECT TO THE ALIGN WITH THE
STATE’S 2045;GOAL OF ACHIEVING NET ZERO GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY AND

(2) PROGRAM GOVERNORSUBMIT A COPY OF THE UPDATED TO THE
AND, § 2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE,IN ACCORDANCE WITH OF THE THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLY.

(E) (1) THE DEPARTMENT STATE–OWNEDSHALL IDENTIFY FACILITIES
THAT ARE POTENTIAL CANDIDATES FOR ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE
CONTRACTS.

(2) STATE ON–SITEAGENCIES SHALL PROVIDE SUPPORT TO WORK
DEPARTMENTWITH THE AT FACILITIES IDENTIFIED AS CANDIDATES FOR ENERGY
SUBSECTION.SAVINGS PERFORMANCE CONTRACTS UNDER THIS

(F) (1) EACH YEAR, DEPARTMENTTHE SHALL CONDUCT AN ENERGY AND
2,000,000GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AUDIT OF AT LEAST SQUARE FEET OF
STATE–OWNED BUILDINGS.

(2) THE AUDIT SHALL INCLUDE BEST PRACTICES AND IDENTIFY
LOW–COST MEASURES FOR INCREASING ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REDUCING
EMISSIONS.GREENHOUSE GAS

(3) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL PROVIDE A COPY OF THE AUDIT TO THE
STATE AUDITED.HEAD OF EACH UNIT OF GOVERNMENT THAT OCCUPIES THE SPACE

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 423 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) (I) EACH STATEUNIT OF GOVERNMENT THAT OCCUPIES THE
SHALL, PRACTICABLE,SPACE AUDITED TO THE FULLEST EXTENT IMPLEMENT THE
AUDIT.MEASURES IDENTIFIED IN THE

(II) FOR 1 YEAR FOLLOWING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
AUDIT, DEPARTMENT SHALL:MEASURES IDENTIFIED IN THE THE

1. UNIT’SMONITOR THE ENERGY USE AND GREENHOUSE
EMISSIONS;GAS

2. TRACK ANY CHANGES RESULTING FROM THE
MEASURES; AND

3. CALCULATE ANY ENERGY COST SAVINGS AND
MEASURES.EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS RESULTING FROM THE

(G) (1) IN SUBSECTION, “DATABASE” COMPREHENSIVETHIS MEANS THE
UTILITY RECORDS MANAGEMENT DATABASE.

(2) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL RECORD REDUCTIONS IN ENERGY
CONSUMPTION AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS RESULTING FROM THE
ENERGY–SAVINGS DATABASE.MEASURES IN THE

(3) EACH DEPARTMENT,MONTH OR ON REQUEST BY THE EACH UNIT
STATE DEPARTMENTOF GOVERNMENT SHALL PROVIDE THE WITH ACCESS TO
UNIT’S UNIT’SAVAILABLE DATA ABOUT THE FACILITIES AND COPIES OF THE UTILITY
BILLS.

(4) THE DEPARTMENT GOVERNORSHALL REPORT TO THE
UNIT’S COMPLIANCE.ANNUALLY ON EACH DATA

(5) THE DEPARTMENT SHALL USE THE FACILITY DATA AND UTILITY
POPULATE,BILL INFORMATION PROVIDED UNDER THIS SUBSECTION TO FULLY
UPDATE, DATABASE.AND MAINTAIN THE

(H) EACH STATE SHALL, UNIT’SUNIT OF GOVERNMENT IN SUPPORT OF THE
MISSIONS,CORE IMPLEMENT PROJECTS AND INITIATIVES TO CONSERVE ENERGY
UNIT’S EMISSIONS.AND REDUCE THE GREENHOUSE GAS

(I) PROVISIONS STATE’SPROMOTING THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION GOALS SHALL BE INCLUDED IN EACH
THAT:REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 423

(1) STATE;IS FOR THE LEASING OF SPACE TO THE AND

(2) STATEWOULD OBLIGATE THE TO PAY THE UTILITY BILLS FOR THE
SPACE.LEASED

(J) EACH YEAR, DEPARTMENTFISCAL THE SHALL REPORT TO THE
GOVERNOR STATE’SON THE PROGRESS TOWARD ACHIEVING THE GOAL OF
STATE 20%.REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN BUILDINGS BY

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 5 –