PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 428

Chapter 428

(Senate Bill 270)

AN ACT concerning

Adult Protective Services – Review Boards – Membership and Terms

FOR the purpose of altering provisions relating to the membership of, and the terms of
members appointed to, adult public guardianship review boards; and generally
relating to adult protective services.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Family Law
Section 14–402
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Family Law

14–402.

[11] 8(a) (1) Each review board consists of members RECRUITED AND
appointed:

(i) by the county commissioners;

(ii) in Baltimore City, by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council;

(iii) in any county that has a county executive, by the county
executive with the advice and consent of the county council; or

(iv) if 2 or more counties have agreed to establish a multicounty
review board, jointly by the appropriate officials of the counties served by the board.

[11] 8(2) Of the members:

(i) 1 shall be a professional representative of a local department;

[(ii) 1. in counties other than St. Mary’s County or Washington
County:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 428 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

A.] (II) 1 shall be a physician’s assistant, nurse
NURSE, [and]practitioner, or physician who is not a psychiatrist;REGISTERED

[B.] (III) psychiatrist,1 shall be a A PSYCHIATRIC NURSE
PRACTITIONER, OR A PROFESSIONAL WITH EXPERTISE IN PRESCRIBING OR
[andMEDICATIONS;OVERSIGHT OF MENTAL HEALTH

2. in St. Mary’s County and Washington County:

A. 1 shall be a physician’s assistant, nurse practitioner, or
physician who is not a psychiatrist; and

B. 1 shall be a psychiatrist or psychologist;

(iii)] (IV) 1 shall be a representative of a local commission on aging;

[(iv)] (V) 1 shall be a professional representative of a local nonprofit
social service organization;

[(v)] (VI) 1 shall be a lawyer;

[(vi)] (VII) [2] 1 [individuals]shall be lay INDIVIDUAL;A AND

[(vii) nurse;]1 shall be a registered

disabilities[; and](viii) 1 shall be a professional in the field of OR A
DISABILITY.PERSON WITH A

[(ix) disability.]1 shall be a person with a physical

[(3)] (2)(b) (1) Except as provided in paragraph of this subsection, the term
of a member is 3 years.

[(2) The terms of members are staggered as required by the terms provided
for members of the review board on October 1, 1984.

(3)] (2) In Charles County, the term of a member is 4 years.

[(4)] (3) [continuesAt the end of a term, a member to serve until a
qualifies]successor is appointed and MAY SERVE FOR ANOTHER TERM ON
APPOINTMENT.

[(5)] (4) A member who is appointed after a term has begun serves only
for the rest of the term and until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 428

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 3 –