PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 400

Chapter 400

(Senate Bill 307)

AN ACT concerning

Public Safety – Board of Boiler Rules – ~~Sunset~~ ~~Extension~~ Membership, Sunset
Extension, and Report

FOR the purpose of altering the membership of the Board of Boiler Rules; extending the
termination date for the Board ~~of~~ ~~Boiler~~ ~~Rules;~~ requiring the Maryland Department
of Labor to submit a certain report to the Joint Audit and Evaluation Committee on
or before a certain date; and generally relating to the Board of Boiler Rules.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 12–901(a) and (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Public Safety
Section 12–904(b) and 12–919
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Public Safety

12–901.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(c) “Board” means the Board of Boiler Rules.

12–904.

[10](b) (1) The Board consists of the following members:

(i) as an ex officio member, the Commissioner; and

[nine] 10(ii) members appointed by the Governor with the advice of
the Secretary and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 400 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[nine] 10(2) Of the appointed members of the Board:

(i) one shall be a representative of owners and users of power
boilers;

(ii) one shall be a representative of owners of agricultural, model, or
historical steam engine equipment;

(iii) one shall be a representative of owners and users of pressure
vessels;

(iv) one shall be a representative of manufacturers or assemblers of
boilers or pressure vessels;

(v) one shall be a representative of an insurer authorized to insure
boilers or pressure vessels;

(vi) one shall be a mechanical engineer on the faculty of a recognized
engineering college in the State;

(vii) one shall be a stationary engineer;

(viii) one shall be a professional engineer with boiler or pressure vessel
[and]experience;

member;(ix) one shall be a consumer AND

(X) 10ONE SHALL BE A REPRESENTATIVE WITH AT LEAST
CONSTRUCTING, INSTALLING,YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN AND REPAIRING BOILERS
VESSELS.AND PRESSURE

12–919.

Subject to the evaluation and reestablishment provisions of the Maryland Program
[2024] ~~2034~~ 2029.Evaluation Act, § 12–904 of this subtitle shall terminate on July 1,

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That, on or before July 1, 2025, the
Department of Labor shall submit a report to the Joint Audit and Evaluation Committee,
in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State Government Article, with information regarding
the Board of Boiler Rules as determined by the Joint Audit and Evaluation Committee.

SECTION ~~2.~~ 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
June 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 2 –