PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 603

Chapter 603

(Senate Bill 345)

AN ACT concerning

Transportation – Vision Zero ~~Advisory~~ ~~Commission~~ ~~–~~ ~~Establishment~~ –
Implementation

FOR the purpose of establishing certain standards and requirements for implementing the
Vision Zero ~~Advisory~~ ~~Commission~~ program under the Maryland Department of
Transportation; and generally relating to the Vision Zero ~~Advisory~~ ~~Commission~~
program under the Maryland Department of Transportation.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – General Provisions
Section 3–307
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)
(As enacted by Chapters 149 and 150 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2022)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 8–1001, 8–1002, ~~and~~ 8–1003, and 8–1006
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Transportation
Section 8–1004, 8–1005, and 8–1007
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~adding~~ ~~to~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Transportation~~
~~Section~~ ~~8–1008~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2020~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – General Provisions

3–307.

(a) This section applies only to the following public bodies:
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 603 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) the Board of Directors of the Bainbridge Development Corporation;

(2) the Canal Place Preservation and Development Authority;

(3) the Maryland 9–1–1 Board;

(4) the Board of Directors of the Maryland Agricultural and
Resource–Based Industry Corporation;

(5) the Board of Directors of the Maryland Clean Energy Center;

(6) the Board of Directors of the Maryland Economic Development
Corporation;

(7) the Board of Directors of the Maryland Environmental Service;

(8) the Maryland Food Center Authority;

(9) the Maryland Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority;

(10) the Maryland Industrial Development Financing Authority;

(11) the Maryland Stadium Authority;

(12) the Maryland Transportation Authority;

(13) the Northeast Maryland Waste Disposal Authority;

(14) the Public Service Commission;

(15) the State Board of Elections;

(16) the Maryland Technology Development Corporation;

(17) the Historic St. Mary’s City Commission;

[and](18) the State Ethics Commission;

Commission;(19) the Maryland Aviation AND

(20) MARYLAND DEPARTMENT TRANSPORTATION,THE OF WITH
VISION ZERORESPECT TO QUARTERLY PUBLIC MEETINGS HELD BY THE
VISION ZERO § 8–1004COORDINATOR ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF UNDER OF THE
TRANSPORTATION ARTICLE.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 603

(b) A public body specified in subsection (a) of this section shall make publicly
available on its website:

(1) each open meeting agenda, together with a summary of any finalized
documents, written testimony from the public, and other materials that the public body will
vote on at the open meeting:

(i) at least 48 hours in advance of each meeting; or

(ii) if the meeting is being held due to an emergency, a natural
disaster, or any other unanticipated situation, as far in advance of the meeting as
practicable;

(2) meeting minutes from the portions of a meeting that were held in open
session, not more than 2 business days after the minutes are approved; and

(3) subject to subsections (f) and (g) of this section, live video streaming of
each portion of a meeting that is held in open session.

(c) To the extent practicable, each open meeting agenda shall indicate:

(1) whether the public body intends to adjourn the open session to a closed
session; and

(2) if applicable, the expected time at which the public body intends to
adjourn the open session to a closed session.

(d) (1) The public body shall approve meeting minutes in a timely manner.

(2) Each open meeting agenda shall include consideration of the meeting
minutes from the most recent meeting.

(3) The requirement under paragraph (2) of this subsection does not apply
to the agenda of an emergency meeting of a public body if consideration of the meeting
minutes from the most recent meeting is not practicable because of the need to hold an
emergency meeting.

(e) The public body shall maintain on its website:

(1) meeting minutes made available under subsection (b) of this section for
a minimum of 5 years after the date of the meeting; and

[and (g)], (G), (G–1)(2) except as provided in subsections (f) of thisAND
section, a complete and unedited archived video recording of each open meeting for which
live video streaming was made available under subsection (b) of this section for a minimum
of 1 year after the date of the meeting.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 603 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(f) (1) This subsection applies only to the Maryland Stadium Authority.

(2) If the Maryland Stadium Authority meets by telephone conference, the
Authority shall:

(i) make publicly available on its website live audio streaming of
each portion of the meeting that is held in open session; and

(ii) maintain on its website a complete and unedited archived audio
recording of each meeting for which live audio streaming was made available for a minimum
of 1 year after the date of the meeting.

(g) (1) This subsection applies only to the Maryland Transportation Authority.

(2) The Maryland Transportation Authority is required to provide live video
streaming of a meeting only if the meeting is held at:

(i) the headquarters of the Maryland Transportation Authority; or

(ii) a location where the Maryland Transportation Authority held at
least 10 meetings during the immediately preceding calendar year.

(G–1) THE MARYLAND DEPARTMENT TRANSPORTATION,OF WITH RESPECT
VISION ZEROTO QUARTERLY PUBLIC MEETINGS HELD BY THE COORDINATOR ON
VISION ZERO § 8–1004 TRANSPORTATIONTHE IMPLEMENTATION OF UNDER OF THE
ARTICLE, SHALL MAINTAIN ON ITS WEBSITE A COMPLETE AND UNEDITED ARCHIVED
5VIDEO RECORDING OF THE MEETING FOR A MINIMUM OF YEARS AFTER THE DATE
MEETING.OF THE

(h) The Department of Information Technology shall provide the technical staff,
support, and equipment necessary to livestream the open meetings of:

(1) the Maryland Transportation Authority;

(2) the State Board of Elections; and

(3) the State Ethics Commission.

(i) For purposes of this title, a project site visit or educational field tour may not
be considered a meeting of a public body listed under subsection (a) of this section if no
organizational business is conducted.

(j) Nothing in this section may be construed to prevent a public body from altering
the agenda of a meeting after the agenda has been made available to the public.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 603

(k) The requirements of this section are in addition to the other requirements of
this subtitle.

Article – Transportation

8–1001.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(b) “Coordinator” means the individual designated by the Department to oversee
the implementation of Vision Zero throughout the State.

(c) “Vision Zero” means a program for planning and developing a State roadway
system that has zero vehicle–related deaths or serious injuries.

8–1002.

There is a program within the Department known as Vision Zero.

8–1003.

(a) The purpose of Vision Zero is to develop strategies to make roadways safer for
drivers and passengers of motor vehicles, bicyclists, and pedestrians.

(b) The goal of Vision Zero is to have zero vehicle–related deaths or serious
injuries on roadways by the year 2030.

8–1004.

(a) The Department shall designate a coordinator to oversee the implementation of
Vision Zero throughout the State.

(1)(b) In implementing Vision Zero, the coordinator shall collaborate with
other State agencies and local authorities, including local transportation agencies, law
services, TO:enforcement agencies, educational institutions, and fire and rescue

(I) IDENTIFY VISION ZEROSTRATEGIES FOR ACHIEVING THE
§ 8–1003(B)GOAL ESTABLISHED UNDER OF THIS SUBTITLE AS ENUMERATED UNDER
§ 8–1005 SUBTITLE;OF THIS

(II) ANALYZE §INFRASTRUCTURE REVIEWS COMPLETED UNDER
8–204.2 TITLE;OF THIS

(III) PROVIDE GUIDANCE ON ANY OTHER ISSUE DIRECTLY
SAFETY;RELATED TO ROADWAY AND

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 603 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(IV) ADVISE GOVERNOR STATETHE AND AND LOCAL AGENCIES
ON:

1. THE VISION ZERO;IMPLEMENTATION OF

2. POLICIES, PROGRAMS, AND SERVICES AFFECTING
PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLISTS,TRAFFIC SAFETY FOR AND DRIVERS AND PASSENGERS
VEHICLES;OF MOTOR AND

3. PRIORITIES SAFETY.AND NEEDS FOR ROADWAY

(2) (I) THE COORDINATOR SHALL HOLD A QUARTERLY PUBLIC
VISION ZERO WITH:MEETING ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF

1. THE ADMINISTRATOR ADMINISTRATOR’SOR THE
DESIGNEE;

2. THE MOTOR VEHICLE ADMINISTRATOR OR THE
MOTOR VEHICLE ADMINISTRATOR’S DESIGNEE;

3. THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MARYLANDOF THE
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S DESIGNEE;OR THE AND

4. A OFFICEREPRESENTATIVE OF THE OF THE
SECRETARY SECRETARY.AS DESIGNATED BY THE

(II) THE COORDINATOR MAY REQUEST THAT ANY OTHER
STATEAPPROPRIATE OR LOCAL OFFICIAL PARTICIPATE IN OR TAKE QUESTIONS AT A
MEETING.QUARTERLY PUBLIC

(III) AT MEETING,A QUARTERLY PUBLIC THE PARTICIPANTS
(I) SHALL:IDENTIFIED UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH OF THIS PARAGRAPH

1. ADDRESS AND MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS ON ANY
VISION ZERO DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES IDENTIFIED BY THE
(1)(I) SUBSECTION;COORDINATOR UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

2. A. DISCUSS EACH INFRASTRUCTURE REVIEW
§ 8–204.2 COORDINATOR;COMPLETED UNDER OF THIS TITLE AND ANALYZED BY THE
AND

B. VOTE TO ACCEPT THE INFRASTRUCTURE REVIEW OR
TO RETURN THE INFRASTRUCTURE REVIEW TO THE PERSON THAT CONDUCTED IT

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 603

FOR A RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS OR FOR FURTHER REVIEW AS
APPROPRIATE; AND

3. DISCUSS AND RECOMMEND ANY GUIDANCE OR ADVICE
(1) SUBSECTION.FOR THE COORDINATOR TO PROVIDE UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS

(IV) 1. A QUARTERLY PUBLIC MEETING SHALL BE LIVE
STREAMED.

2. THE DEPARTMENT SHALL MAINTAIN ON ITS WEBSITE
A COMPLETE AND UNEDITED ARCHIVED VIDEO RECORDING OF EACH QUARTERLY
5 MEETING.PUBLIC MEETING FOR A MINIMUM OF YEARS AFTER THE DATE OF THE

8–1005.

[strategiesThe implementation of Vision Zero shall include for achieving the goal
including]established under § 8–1003(b) of this subtitle, strategies for:

(1) Identifying State and local laws, policies, and regulations that hinder
the development and implementation of Vision Zero;

(2) Proposing changes to State and local laws to allow for innovative
engineering and traffic calming;

(3) Creating a Vision Zero website that contains information related to
Vision Zero;

(4) Collecting and publishing motor vehicle collision data;

(5) Connecting with other states and communities that have implemented a
similar Vision Zero program;

(6) Reviewing existing traffic safety programs to determine their
effectiveness;

(7) Working with research organizations to develop best practices;

(8) Prioritizing resources for investment in the communities most affected
by motor vehicle collisions;

(9) Proactively engaging community members to address their traffic safety
concerns;

(10) Developing and publishing a long–term plan for the continued
development of Vision Zero; and

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 603 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(11) Investing more resources into construction needs for high–accident
intersections and roadway sections.

8–1006.

Funds for Vision Zero shall be as provided by the Governor in the State budget.

8–1007.

(a) On or before December 31 each year, the Department shall submit a report
[on Zero]the status of Vision to the Governor and, in accordance with § 2–1257 of the State
INCLUDES:Government Article, the General Assembly THAT

(1) THE VISION ZERO;STATUS OF ~~AND~~

(2) THE ACTIVITIES, RECOMMENDATIONS,AND ANY FINDINGS AND OF
~~VISION~~ ~~ZERO~~ ~~ADVISORY~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~§~~ ~~8–1008~~THE ~~ESTABLISHED~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
COORDINATOR;~~SUBTITLE~~ AND

(3) A SUMMARY OF EACH QUARTERLY PUBLIC MEETING HELD IN THE
YEAR.PREVIOUS

(b) The Department shall make the report required under subsection (a) of this
section available on its website.

~~8–1008.~~

~~(A)~~ ~~IN~~ ~~SECTION,~~ ~~“COMMISSION”~~ ~~VISION~~ ~~ZERO~~ ~~ADVISORY~~~~THIS~~ ~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSION.~~

~~(B)~~ ~~THERE~~ ~~VISION~~ ~~ZERO~~ ~~ADVISORY~~ ~~COMMISSION.~~~~IS~~ ~~A~~

~~(C)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~~~PURPOSE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~IS~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ADVISE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ON~~
~~BEST~~ ~~PRACTICES~~ ~~INTENDED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ELIMINATE~~ ~~DEATHS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~SERIOUS~~ ~~INJURIES~~ ~~ON~~
~~DATA–DRIVEN~~~~ROADWAYS~~ ~~IN~~ ~~ALL~~ ~~MODES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~GROUND~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~USING~~
~~STRATEGIES,~~ ~~SAFE~~ ~~SYSTEM~~ ~~APPROACH.~~~~PREVENTION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~AN~~ ~~EMPHASIS~~ ~~ON~~ ~~A~~

~~(D)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~MEMBERS:~~~~CONSISTS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~

~~(1)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~SENATE~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~PRESIDENT~~ ~~SENATE;~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(2)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~HOUSE~~ ~~DELEGATES,~~~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~SPEAKER~~ ~~HOUSE;~~~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 603

~~(3)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION,~~ ~~SECRETARY’S~~~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~
~~DESIGNEE;~~

~~(4)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~POLICE~~ ~~SECRETARY’S~~~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~
~~DESIGNEE;~~

~~(5)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~HEALTH~~ ~~SECRETARY’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE;~~~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(6)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~PLANNING~~ ~~SECRETARY’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE;~~~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(7)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~AGING~~ ~~SECRETARY’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE;~~~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(8)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECRETARY~~ ~~DISABILITIES~~ ~~SECRETARY’S~~~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~
~~DESIGNEE;~~

~~(9)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~SUPERINTENDENT~~ ~~SCHOOLS~~ ~~STATE~~~~OF~~ ~~OR~~ ~~THE~~
~~SUPERINTENDENT’S~~ ~~DESIGNEE;~~

~~(10)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEMBERS,~~ ~~SECRETARY~~~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~TRANSPORTATION:~~

~~(I)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COORDINATOR;~~

~~(II)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~HIGHWAY~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~SAFETY~~ ~~OFFICE;~~

~~(III)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~HIGHWAY~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ADMINISTRATION;~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~TRANSIT~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ADMINISTRATION;~~

~~(V)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MOTOR~~ ~~VEHICLE~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ADMINISTRATION;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(VI)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~AUTHORITY;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(11)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEMBERS,~~ ~~GOVERNOR:~~~~FOLLOWING~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~

~~(I)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~INSTITUTE~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOR~~
~~EMERGENCY~~ ~~MEDICAL~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~SYSTEMS;~~

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 603 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(II)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~CHIEF~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~MEDICAL~~ ~~EXAMINER;~~

~~(III)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~PEDESTRIAN~~~~CITIZEN~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~BICYCLIST~~ ~~ADVISORY~~ ~~COMMITTEE;~~~~AND~~

~~(IV)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~COORDINATING~~ ~~COMMITTEE~~~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~HUMAN~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION;~~~~FOR~~

~~(V)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~ASSOCIATION~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~COUNTIES;~~~~OF~~

~~(VI)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~MUNICIPAL~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~LEAGUE;~~

~~(VII)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~SHERIFFS’~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ASSOCIATION;~~

~~(VIII)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~CHIEFS~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~POLICE~~ ~~ASSOCIATION;~~

~~(IX)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~ENGINEERS~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ASSOCIATION~~ ~~MARYLAND;~~~~OF~~

~~(X)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~INSTITUTION~~ ~~OF~~
~~SYSTEMS;~~~~HIGHER~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~OR~~

~~(XI)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~INSTITUTION~~ ~~OF~~
~~HIGHER~~ ~~EDUCATION~~ ~~WITH~~ ~~EXPERTISE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~EVALUATING~~ ~~HIGHWAY~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~PROGRAMS~~
~~CAMPAIGNS;~~~~OR~~

~~(XII)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~HOSPITAL~~~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~ASSOCIATION;~~

~~(XIII)~~ ~~TWO~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~ORGANIZATIONS~~ ~~THAT~~
~~PEDESTRIANS;~~~~ADVOCATE~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~BICYCLISTS~~ ~~OR~~

~~(XIV)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~THAT~~
~~DISABILITIES;~~~~ADVOCATES~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~PEOPLE~~ ~~WITH~~

~~(XV)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~ORGANIZATION~~ ~~THAT~~
~~INDUSTRY;~~~~REPRESENTS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TRUCKING~~ ~~AND~~

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 603

~~(XVI)~~ ~~ONE~~ ~~REPRESENTATIVE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~
~~MARYLAND:~~~~METROPOLITAN~~ ~~PLANNING~~ ~~ORGANIZATIONS~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~CITIZENS~~ ~~OF~~

~~1.~~ ~~NATIONAL~~ ~~CAPITAL~~ ~~REGION~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~
~~PLANNING~~ ~~BOARD;~~

~~2.~~ ~~BALTIMORE~~ ~~REGIONAL~~ ~~TRANSPORTATION~~ ~~BOARD;~~

~~3.~~ ~~CUMBERLAND~~ ~~AREA~~ ~~METROPOLITAN~~ ~~PLANNING~~
~~ORGANIZATION;~~

~~4.~~ ~~HAGERSTOWN/EASTERN~~ ~~PANHANDLE~~
~~METROPOLITAN~~ ~~PLANNING~~ ~~ORGANIZATION;~~

~~5.~~ ~~WILMINGTON~~ ~~AREA~~ ~~PLANNING~~ ~~COUNCIL;~~

~~6.~~ ~~SALISBURY/WICOMICO~~ ~~METROPOLITAN~~ ~~PLANNING~~
~~ORGANIZATION;~~ ~~AND~~

~~7.~~ ~~CALVERT–ST.~~ ~~MARY’S~~ ~~METROPOLITAN~~ ~~PLANNING~~
~~ORGANIZATION.~~

~~(E)~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PRACTICABLE,~~ ~~COMMISSION~~~~THE~~ ~~EXTENT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEMBERSHIP~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~RACIAL,~~ ~~ETHNIC,~~ ~~GEOGRAPHIC,~~ ~~GENDER,~~~~SHALL~~ ~~REFLECT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~ECONOMIC~~
~~STATE.~~~~DIVERSITY~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(F)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~COMMISSION.~~~~SHALL~~ ~~DESIGNATE~~ ~~THE~~ ~~CHAIR~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(G)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~A~~ ~~VACANCY~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~BE~~
~~MEMBER.~~~~PROMPTLY~~ ~~FILLED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~THE~~ ~~VACATING~~

~~(2)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~REMOVE~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~FOR~~
~~INCOMPETENCE,~~ ~~MISCONDUCT,~~ ~~OR~~ ~~FAILURE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~PERFORM~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DUTIES~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~POSITION.~~

~~(2)~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMMISSION~~~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SERVES~~ ~~AT~~ ~~THE~~ ~~PLEASURE~~ ~~OF~~
~~COMMISSION.~~~~THE~~ ~~PERSON~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~THE~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

~~(3)~~ ~~AT~~ ~~COMMISSION~~~~THE~~ ~~FIRST~~ ~~MEETING~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~OCCURS~~ ~~ON~~
~~OCTOBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024,~~ ~~COMMISSION~~~~OR~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SHALL~~ ~~VOTE~~ ~~TO~~ ~~ADOPT~~ ~~A~~ ~~CODE~~ ~~OF~~
~~COMMISSION~~ ~~MEMBERS.~~~~CONDUCT~~ ~~PROVIDING~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ACCEPTABLE~~ ~~CONDUCT~~ ~~OF~~

~~(H)~~ ~~(1)~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~COMMISSION~~~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~APPLIES~~ ~~ONLY~~ ~~TO~~ ~~MEMBERS~~
~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~(D)(11)~~ ~~SECTION.~~~~APPOINTED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~SUBSECTION~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~
– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 603 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(2)~~ ~~EXCEPT~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~MEMBERS,~~~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INITIAL~~ ~~TERMS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~4~~ ~~YEARS.~~~~THE~~ ~~TERM~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~IS~~

~~(3)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERMS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ ~~ARE~~ ~~STAGGERED~~ ~~AS~~ ~~REQUIRED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSION~~ ~~OCTOBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024.~~~~TERMS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~MEMBERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ON~~

~~(4)~~ ~~AT~~ ~~TERM,~~~~THE~~ ~~END~~ ~~OF~~ ~~A~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~CONTINUES~~ ~~TO~~ ~~SERVE~~ ~~UNTIL~~
~~QUALIFIES.~~~~A~~ ~~SUCCESSOR~~ ~~IS~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~AND~~

~~(5)~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~WHO~~ ~~IS~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~A~~ ~~TERM~~ ~~HAS~~ ~~BEGUN~~ ~~SERVES~~
~~ONLY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~ ~~REST~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~TERM~~ ~~AND~~ ~~UNTIL~~ ~~A~~ ~~SUCCESSOR~~ ~~IS~~ ~~APPOINTED~~ ~~AND~~
~~QUALIFIES.~~

~~(6)~~ ~~A~~ ~~REAPPOINTED,~~~~MEMBER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~BE~~ ~~BUT~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~SERVING~~ ~~TWO~~
~~TERMS,~~ ~~1~~~~CONSECUTIVE~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~BE~~ ~~REAPPOINTED~~ ~~UNTIL~~ ~~AT~~ ~~LEAST~~
~~MEMBER’S~~ ~~TERM.~~~~YEAR~~ ~~AFTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~END~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~ ~~SECOND~~

~~(I)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEPARTMENT~~ ~~COMMISSION.~~~~SHALL~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~STAFF~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~THE~~

~~(J)~~ ~~A~~ ~~COMMISSION:~~~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~

~~(1)~~ ~~MAY~~ ~~NOT~~ ~~RECEIVE~~ ~~COMPENSATION~~ ~~AS~~ ~~A~~ ~~MEMBER~~ ~~OF~~ ~~THE~~
~~COMMISSION;~~ ~~BUT~~

~~(2)~~ ~~IS~~ ~~ENTITLED~~ ~~TO~~ ~~REIMBURSEMENT~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~EXPENSES~~ ~~UNDER~~ ~~THE~~
~~STANDARD~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~TRAVEL~~ ~~REGULATIONS,~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~BUDGET.~~~~AS~~ ~~PROVIDED~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~

~~(K)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~COMMISSION~~ ~~SHALL:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~ADVISE~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~ON:~~~~THE~~ ~~AND~~ ~~AGENCIES~~

~~(I)~~ ~~THE~~ ~~VISION~~ ~~ZERO;~~~~IMPLEMENTATION~~ ~~OF~~

~~(II)~~ ~~POLICIES,~~ ~~PROGRAMS,~~ ~~AND~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~AFFECTING~~ ~~TRAFFIC~~
~~PEDESTRIANS,~~ ~~BICYCLISTS,~~~~SAFETY~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~DRIVERS~~ ~~AND~~ ~~PASSENGERS~~ ~~OF~~ ~~MOTOR~~
~~VEHICLES;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(III)~~ ~~PRIORITIES~~ ~~SAFETY;~~~~AND~~ ~~NEEDS~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~ROADWAY~~

~~(2)~~ ~~IDENTIFY~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~LAWS,~~ ~~POLICIES,~~~~AND~~ ~~LOCAL~~ ~~AND~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~
~~VISION~~ ~~ZERO;~~~~THAT~~ ~~HINDER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~DEVELOPMENT~~ ~~AND~~ ~~IMPLEMENTATION~~ ~~OF~~

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 603

~~(3)~~ ~~REVIEW~~ ~~SAFETY~~ ~~DEFICIENCIES~~ ~~AT~~ ~~CRASH~~ ~~SITES~~ ~~WHERE~~ ~~THERE~~
~~12~~ ~~MONTHS,~~~~HAVE~~ ~~BEEN~~ ~~THREE~~ ~~OR~~ ~~MORE~~ ~~FATALITIES~~ ~~WITHIN~~ ~~INCLUDING~~
~~§~~~~DEFICIENCIES~~ ~~IDENTIFIED~~ ~~BY~~ ~~INFRASTRUCTURE~~ ~~REVIEWS~~ ~~CONDUCTED~~ ~~UNDER~~
~~8–204.2~~ ~~TITLE;~~~~OF~~ ~~THIS~~ ~~AND~~

~~(4)~~ ~~PROVIDE~~ ~~GUIDANCE~~ ~~ON~~ ~~ANY~~ ~~OTHER~~ ~~ISSUE~~ ~~DIRECTLY~~ ~~RELATED~~ ~~TO~~
~~SAFETY.~~~~ROADWAY~~

~~SECTION~~ ~~2.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That~~ ~~the~~ ~~terms~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~initial~~
~~members~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Vision~~ ~~Zero~~ ~~Advisory~~ ~~Commission~~ ~~appointed~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~Governor~~ ~~under~~ ~~§~~
~~8–1008(d)(11)~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Transportation~~ ~~Article,~~ ~~as~~ ~~enacted~~ ~~by~~ ~~Section~~ ~~1~~ ~~of~~ ~~this~~ ~~Act,~~ ~~shall~~ ~~expire~~
~~as~~ ~~follows:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~eight~~ ~~members~~ ~~in~~ ~~2026;~~

~~(2)~~ ~~eight~~ ~~members~~ ~~in~~ ~~2027;~~ ~~and~~

~~(3)~~ ~~seven~~ ~~members~~ ~~in~~ ~~2028.~~

SECTION ~~3.~~ 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 13 –