PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 181

Chapter 181

(Senate Bill 376)

AN ACT concerning

Higher Education – University of Maryland School of Medicine and MPowering
Joint Steering Council – Funding

FOR the purpose of requiring the Governor to include a certain appropriation in the annual
State budget bill for the University of Maryland School of Medicine to provide certain
clinical care at the University of Maryland Capital Region Medical Center and the
MPowering Joint Steering Council to use exclusively on the University of Maryland
Institute for Health Computing; and generally relating to the University of Maryland
School of Medicine and the MPowering Joint Steering Council.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 12–120 and 12–304
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section 12–301(a) and (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

~~BY~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~and~~ ~~reenacting,~~ ~~with~~ ~~amendments,~~
~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Education~~
~~Section~~ ~~12–304~~
~~Annotated~~ ~~Code~~ ~~of~~ ~~Maryland~~
~~(2022~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

12–120.

(a) The University of Maryland School of Medicine shall provide clinical care at
the University of Maryland Capital Region Medical Center by assigning to the Center faculty
who specialize in identified essential areas.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 181 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[For 2025] EACH(b) (1) fiscal years 2023 through YEAR, the GovernorFISCAL
shall include in the annual budget bill an appropriation of at least $5,000,000 to implement
the provisions of this section.

(2) Funds provided in accordance with this subsection shall supplement
and may not supplant any other funding provided to the University of Maryland School of
Medicine.

12–301.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(c) “Council” means the MPowering Joint Steering Council established under §
12–304 of this subtitle.

12–304.

(a) There is an MPowering Joint Steering Council.

(b) The Council consists of members appointed by the President of the College
Park Campus and the President of the Baltimore Campus.

(c) The Council shall:

(1) Develop guidelines for faculty appointments that are joint between the
College Park Campus and the Baltimore Campus;

(2) Make recommendations to the presidents on joint faculty
appointments;

(3) Make recommendations to the presidents identifying competitor state
peers for the University of Maryland;

(4) Establish a process by which undergraduate and graduate programs
are evaluated to determine whether the students, the University of Maryland, and the
State would benefit from alignment and collaboration and make recommendations to the
presidents;

(5) Carry out the programs and policies established under the MPower
program as directed by the presidents;

(6) Explore opportunities to create registered apprenticeship programs in
nursing and other fields that include integration of high school career and technology
education programs and University of Maryland graduate and undergraduate programs;
and

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 181

(7) Perform any other duties assigned by the presidents.

(d) (1) The Governor shall include in the annual State budget for the Council
a General Fund appropriation in the following amounts:

(i) $2,000,000 in fiscal year 2021;

(ii) $4,000,000 in fiscal year 2022;

(iii) $6,000,000 in fiscal year 2023;

(iv) $8,000,000 in fiscal year 2024; and

(v) $10,000,000 in fiscal year 2025 and each fiscal year thereafter.

(2) The Governor shall include in the annual State budget for the
University of Maryland Baltimore County, to further its mission as a research university
and to complement the economic development and research activities of the MPowering
Joint Steering Council, a General Fund appropriation in the following amounts:

(i) $400,000 in fiscal year 2021;

(ii) $800,000 in fiscal year 2022;

(iii) $1,200,000 in fiscal year 2023;

(iv) $1,600,000 in fiscal year 2024; and

(v) $2,000,000 in fiscal year 2025 and each year thereafter.

THE GOVERNOR STATE(3) SHALL INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET
COUNCIL UNIVERSITY MARYLANDFOR THE TO USE EXCLUSIVELY ON THE OF
INSTITUTE HEALTH COMPUTING GENERAL FUNDFOR A APPROPRIATION IN THE
AMOUNTS:FOLLOWING

(I) $1,500,000 2026;IN FISCAL YEAR

(II) $3,000,000 2027;IN FISCAL YEAR

(III) $4,500,000 2028;IN FISCAL YEAR AND

(IV) $6,000,000 2029IN FISCAL YEAR AND EACH YEAR
THEREAFTER.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 181 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) (1), (2), [(2)] (3)The money appropriated under paragraphs and of this
subsection is supplemental to and may not take the place of funding that otherwise would
be appropriated for the Council or the University of Maryland Baltimore County.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 4 –