PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 6

Chapter 6

(Senate Bill 478)

AN ACT concerning

Families Serve Act of 2024

FOR the purpose of authorizing employers to grant a preference in hiring and promotion to
spouses of eligible service members; requiring the appointing authorities in the
Executive Branch of State government to apply a certain credit on any selection test
for eligible military spouses and veterans of certain uniformed services; and
generally relating to hiring and promotion preferences.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Labor and Employment
Section 3–714
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Personnel and Pensions
Section 7–207(c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Labor and Employment

3–714.

(1) section[, “eligible](a) In this THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE
INDICATED.MEANINGS

(2) “ELIGIBLE MEMBER” FULL–TIMESERVICE MEANS A ACTIVE DUTY
MEMBER OF ~~THE~~ ~~UNIFORMED~~ ~~SERVICES~~ ~~OF~~ ANY BRANCH OF THE ~~ARMED~~ ~~FORCES~~
UNITED STATES.UNIFORMED SERVICES OF THE

(3) “ELIGIBLE veteran” means a veteran of any branch of the ~~armed~~ ~~forces~~
of the United States who has received an honorable discharge orUNIFORMED SERVICES
a certificate of satisfactory completion of ~~military~~ service, including:

[(1)] (I) the National Guard;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 6 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(2)] (II) the military reserves;

[(3)] (III) the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service; and

[(4)] (IV) the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.

(b) An employer may grant a preference in hiring and promotion to:

(1) an eligible veteran;

(2) the spouse of an eligible veteran who has a service–connected disability;
[or]

MEMBER;(3) THE SPOUSE OF AN ELIGIBLE SERVICE OR

(4) the surviving spouse of a deceased eligible veteran.

(c) Granting a preference under subsection (b) of this section does not violate any
State or local equal employment opportunity law.

Article – State Personnel and Pensions

7–207.

(I) subsection[, “eligible](c) (1) In this THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE
INDICATED.THE MEANINGS

(II) “ELIGIBLE SPOUSE”~~MILITARY~~ MEANS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO
FULL–TIMEIS MARRIED TO ~~AN~~ ~~ACTIVE~~ ~~DUTY~~ ~~MILITARY~~ ~~SERVICE~~ ~~MEMBER~~ A ACTIVE
UNITEDDUTY MEMBER OF ANY BRANCH OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES OF THE
STATES.

(III) “ELIGIBLE veteran” means a veteran of any branch of the ~~armed~~
~~forces~~ of the United States who has received an honorableUNIFORMED SERVICES
discharge or a certificate of satisfactory completion of ~~military~~ service, including the
National Guard and the military reserves.

[ten] 10(2) (i) An appointing authority shall apply a credit of points on
any selection test for:

SPOUSE;1. AN ELIGIBLE ~~MILITARY~~

2. an eligible veteran;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 6

[2.] 3.the spouse of an eligible veteran who has a service
connected disability; or

[3.] 4.the surviving spouse of a deceased eligible veteran.

(ii) An appointing authority shall apply a credit of two additional
points on any selection test for a former prisoner of war.

(3) The following applicants are ineligible for a credit under this
subsection:

(i) a current State employee; and

(ii) an eligible veteran who is convicted of a crime after being
discharged from or completing military service.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 9, 2024.

– 3 –