PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 221

Chapter 221

(Senate Bill 430)

AN ACT concerning

Community Health and Safety Works Grant Program and Fund – Establishment

FOR the purpose of establishing the Community Health and Safety Works Grant Program
in the Department of Housing and Community Development; establishing the
Community Health and Safety Works Grant Program Fund as a special, nonlapsing
fund to provide financial assistance in the form of grants under the provisions of the
Program for certain eligible projects; requiring interest earnings of the Fund to be
credited to the Fund; and generally relating to the Community Health and Safety
Works Grant Program and Fund.

BY adding to
Article – Housing and Community Development
Section 6–1201 through 6–1207 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 12.
Community Health and Safety Works Grant Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2019 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)189. and 190.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)191.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Housing and Community Development

SUBTITLE 12. COMMUNITY HEALTH SAFETY WORKS GRANT PROGRAM.AND
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 221 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

6–1201.

(A) IN THIS SUBTITLE THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(B) “ELIGIBLE PROJECT” MEANS:

(1) A FACILITY AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT AS
§ 6–1204 SUBTITLE;DEFINED IN OF THIS

(2) A BUSINESS DISTRICT AND NEIGHBORHOOD SECURITY PROJECT
§ 6–1205 SUBTITLE;AS DEFINED IN OF THIS OR

(3) COMMUNITY–CENTEREDA CRIME AND VIOLENCE INTERVENTION
§ 6–1206 SUBTITLE.AND PREVENTION PROJECT AS DEFINED IN OF THIS

(C) “PROGRAM” COMMUNITY HEALTH SAFETY WORKSMEANS THE AND
GRANT PROGRAM.

6–1202.

(A) THERE COMMUNITY HEALTH SAFETY WORKS GRANTIS A AND
PROGRAM DEPARTMENT.IN THE

(B) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE IN THE FORM OF GRANTS FOR ELIGIBLE PROJECTS THAT IMPROVE THE
MARYLANDQUALITY OF LIFE WITHIN AND ECONOMIC POTENTIAL OF COMMUNITIES
BY MAKING TARGETED INVESTMENTS IN CRIME PREVENTION STRATEGIES TO
ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, COMMERCIAL,ADDRESS OR SAFETY CONCERNS IN
PUBLIC, AREAS.OR RESIDENTIAL

6–1203.

THE DEPARTMENT SHALL:

(1) PROGRAM;ADMINISTER THE AND

(2) PROGRAM.ADOPT REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT THE

6–1204.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 221

(2) “ELIGIBLE APPLICANT” TAX–EXEMPTMEANS A NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION.

(3) (I) “FACILITY PROJECT”AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT
THAT:MEANS A PHYSICAL PROJECT OR A COMMUNITY SERVICE

1. COMMUNITY–MANAGEDMAKES A FACILITY OR A OPEN
VISITORS;SPACE SAFER FOR RESIDENTS AND

2. ENCOURAGES THE AUTHORIZED USES OF A FACILITY
COMMUNITY–MANAGED INDIVIDUALS;OR A OPEN SPACE BY OR

3. COMMUNITY–LEDSUPPORTS EFFORTS TO IMPROVE
COMMUNITY–MANAGED SPACE.THE APPEARANCE OF A FACILITY OR A OPEN

(II) “FACILITY PROJECT”AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT
INCLUDES:

1. OF:THE PURCHASE OR INSTALLATION

A. EQUIPMENT THAT INCREASES THE VISIBILITY OF
SPACES,VULNERABLE INCLUDING SURVEILLANCE TOOLS OR ADEQUATE LIGHTING
DOORS, AREAS, HALLWAYS;FOR EXTERIOR COMMON OR OR

B. FEATURES,LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
SIGNS, GARDENS, TREATMENTS, PLANTINGS,INCLUDING PAVING OR OTHER
SPACES;UPGRADES TO PUBLIC

2. TO:EFFORTS

A. WITHIN,IMPROVE SIGHT LINES INCREASE VISITATION
TO, SPACES;OR CLEAN PUBLIC OR

B. INTEGRATE LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
COMMUNITY–MANAGEDFEATURES INTO A FACILITY OR A OPEN SPACE IN A MANNER
THAT CONNECTS ADJACENT NEIGHBORHOODS FOR VARIOUS USERS WHILE
AREAS;DISTANCING THE USERS FROM PRIVATE

3. TIMELY REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI AND USE OF GRAFFITI
RESISTANCE PRACTICES IN COLLABORATION WITH A PERSON WHO SPECIALIZES IN
VIBRANT,THE AREA OF GRAFFITI REMOVAL SERVICES TO PRESENT A MAINTAINED
SPACE; AND

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 221 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

4. CONTRACTED LAND ENHANCEMENT OR
GROUNDSKEEPING SERVICES TO MAINTAIN OR CLEAN OPEN SPACES AND
SURFACES.FUNCTIONAL

(B) AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT MAY APPLY FOR A GRANT UNDER THE
PROGRAM PROJECT.FOR A FACILITY AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT

(C) IF AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT SUBMITS AN APPLICATION FOR A GRANT
PROGRAMUNDER THE FOR A FACILITY AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
READERS,TO PURCHASE OR INSTALL A NETWORK OF CAMERAS OR LICENSE THE
APPLICATION:ELIGIBLE APPLICANT SHALL INCLUDE WITH THE

(1) PLAN;A MONITORING

(2) ENFORCEMENT,EVIDENCE OF A PARTNERSHIP WITH LAW THE
GOVERNMENTAL UNIT RESPONSIBLE FOR TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT FOR THE
SUBDIVISION, AGENCIES;POLITICAL AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT PUBLIC AND

(3) A LIST OF POSSIBLE LOCATIONS OF CAMERAS AND LICENSE
READERS AND A PLAN FOR PROVIDING NOTICE OF LOCATIONS TO PROPERTY
OWNERS.

(D) THE DEPARTMENT MAY AWARD AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT WHO SUBMITS
PROGRAMA COMPLETE APPLICATION FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE FOR
THAT:A FACILITY AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT A GRANT

(1) $25,000;IS AT LEAST AND

(2) $50,000.DOES NOT EXCEED

6–1205.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) (I) “BUSINESS DISTRICT AND NEIGHBORHOOD SECURITY
PROJECT” MEANS A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR ENHANCING THE VISUAL
AREAS.PERCEPTION OF SAFETY ALONG COMMERCIAL CORRIDORS AND ADJACENT

(II) “BUSINESS DISTRICT AND NEIGHBORHOOD SECURITY
PROJECT” INCLUDES:

1. OF:THE PURCHASE OR INSTALLATION

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 221

A. EQUIPMENT THAT INCREASES THE VISIBILITY OF
SPACES, TOOLS,VULNERABLE INCLUDING SURVEILLANCE ADEQUATE LIGHTING
DOORS, AREAS, HALLWAYS, PEDESTRIAN–SCALEFOR EXTERIOR COMMON OR OR
HIGH–PEDESTRIAN–TRAFFIC AREAS;STREET LIGHTING IN

B. DEVICES;VEHICLE OR PEDESTRIAN CONTROL

C. EQUIPMENT TO LOCK OR CONCEAL DUMPSTERS FROM
ACCESS;PUBLIC OR

D. SIGNS, GARDENS, EQUIPMENT,LITTER REMOVAL
PLANTINGS, SPACES;OR OTHER UPGRADES TO PUBLIC

2. TO:EFFORTS

A. TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE NEEDS OF
NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE SURROUNDING AREA TO IMPROVE ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL
USERS, AMERICANS DISABILITIES ACT STANDARDS;IN COMPLIANCE WITH WITH OR

B. INCREASE CITIZEN AND MERCHANT STEWARDSHIP
ORGANIZING, EDUCATION,THROUGH AND OUTREACH ACTIVITIES THAT SEEK TO
ENGAGE RESIDENTS AND OTHER COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDERS TO ACTIVELY
PARTICIPATE IN THE UPKEEP AND IMPROVEMENT OF RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND
SPACES;PUBLIC

3. CONTRACTED CLEANING OR LANDSCAPING SERVICES
SPACES;TO MAINTAIN OR CLEAN IMPROVED OPEN

4. CONTRACTED LOCAL PRIVATE SECURITY SERVICES
COMMUNITY–BASEDOR SIMILAR PROGRAMS WITH A SPECIFIC EMPHASIS ON
DE–ESCALATION BUILDING;AND RELATIONSHIP AND

5. OTHER EFFORTS CONSISTENT WITH SUBPARAGRAPH
(I) PARAGRAPH.OF THIS

(3) “ELIGIBLE APPLICANT” MEANS:

(I) TAX–EXEMPT ORGANIZATION;A NONPROFIT

(II) SUBDIVISION;A GOVERNMENTAL UNIT FOR A POLITICAL OR

(III) AN INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION IN
ASSOCIATION.COLLABORATION WITH A LOCAL NEIGHBORHOOD

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 221 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(B) AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT MAY APPLY FOR A GRANT UNDER THE
PROGRAM PROJECT.FOR A BUSINESS DISTRICT AND NEIGHBORHOOD SECURITY

(C) IF AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT SUBMITS AN APPLICATION FOR A GRANT
PROGRAMUNDER THE FOR A BUSINESS DISTRICT AND NEIGHBORHOOD SECURITY
PROJECT TO PURCHASE OR INSTALL A NETWORK OF CAMERAS OR LICENSE
READERS, APPLICATION:THE ELIGIBLE APPLICANT SHALL INCLUDE WITH THE

(1) PLAN;A MONITORING AND

(2) ENFORCEMENT,EVIDENCE OF A PARTNERSHIP WITH LAW THE
GOVERNMENTAL UNIT RESPONSIBLE FOR TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT FOR THE
SUBDIVISION, AGENCIES.POLITICAL AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT PUBLIC

(D) THE DEPARTMENT MAY AWARD AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT WHO SUBMITS
PROGRAMA COMPLETE APPLICATION FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE FOR
THAT:A BUSINESS DISTRICT AND NEIGHBORHOOD SECURITY PROJECT A GRANT

(1) $75,000;IS AT LEAST AND

(2) $150,000.DOES NOT EXCEED

6–1206.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “COMMUNITY–CENTERED CRIME AND VIOLENCE INTERVENTION
PROJECT”AND PREVENTION MEANS A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY THAT
THAT:INTEGRATES PARTNERSHIPS AND COORDINATED ACTIVITIES

(I) DIRECTLY ENGAGE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE AT RISK OF
BECOMING INVOLVED WITH OR AFFECTED BY VIOLENCE AND CRIME USING
EVIDENCE–BASED INTERVENTIONS; AND

(II) REDUCE CRIME AND DISORDER BY CAREFULLY EXAMINING
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF PROBLEMS IN NEIGHBORHOODS AND APPLYING
PROBLEM–SOLVING REMEDIES.APPROPRIATE

(3) “ELIGIBLE APPLICANT” TAX–EXEMPTMEANS A NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 221

(B) AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT MAY APPLY FOR A GRANT UNDER THE
PROGRAM COMMUNITY–CENTEREDFOR A CRIME AND VIOLENCE INTERVENTION
PROJECT.AND PREVENTION

(C) THE DEPARTMENT MAY AWARD AN ELIGIBLE APPLICANT WHO SUBMITS
PROGRAMA COMPLETE APPLICATION FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THE FOR
COMMUNITY–CENTEREDA CRIME AND VIOLENCE INTERVENTION AND PREVENTION
$250,000.PROJECT A GRANT THAT DOES NOT EXCEED

6–1207.

(A) IN SECTION, “FUND” COMMUNITY HEALTHTHIS MEANS THE AND
SAFETY WORKS GRANT PROGRAM FUND.

(B) THERE COMMUNITY HEALTH SAFETY WORKS GRANTIS A AND
PROGRAM FUND.

(C) THE FUNDPURPOSE OF THE IS TO PROVIDE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE IN
PROGRAMTHE FORM OF GRANTS UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE FOR ELIGIBLE
PROJECTS.

(D) THE DEPARTMENT FUND.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) (1) THE FUND SPECIAL,IS A NONLAPSING FUND THAT IS NOT
§ 7–302 STATE FINANCE PROCUREMENT ARTICLE.SUBJECT TO OF THE AND

(2) THE STATE TREASURER FUND SEPARATELY,SHALL HOLD THE
COMPTROLLER FUND.AND THE SHALL ACCOUNT FOR THE

(F) THE FUND OF:CONSISTS

(1) STATE FUND;MONEY APPROPRIATED IN THE BUDGET TO THE

(2) FUND;EARNINGS FROM THE INVESTMENT OF MONEY IN THE

(3) FUND;INTEREST EARNINGS OF THE AND

(4) ANY OTHER MONEY FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE ACCEPTED FOR
FUND.THE BENEFIT OF THE

(G) THE FUND MAY BE USED ONLY FOR PROVIDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM.IN THE FORM OF GRANTS UNDER THE

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 221 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(H) (1) THE STATE TREASURER FUNDSHALL INVEST THE MONEY OF THE
STATE INVESTED.IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER MONEY MAY BE

(2) ANY FUNDINTEREST EARNINGS OF THE SHALL BE CREDITED TO
FUND.THE

(I) EXPENDITURES FUNDFROM THE MAY BE MADE ONLY IN ACCORDANCE
STATE BUDGET.WITH THE

~~(J)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2025~~ ~~2028,~~ ~~GOVERNOR~~~~EACH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEARS~~ ~~THROUGH~~ ~~THE~~
~~$10,000,000~~~~SHALL~~ ~~INCLUDE~~ ~~IN~~ ~~THE~~ ~~ANNUAL~~ ~~BUDGET~~ ~~BILL~~ ~~AN~~ ~~APPROPRIATION~~ ~~OF~~
~~FUND.~~~~TO~~ ~~THE~~

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[and]189. the Teacher Retention and Development Fund;

Fund;190. the Protecting Against Hate Crimes Grant AND

191. COMMUNITY HEALTH SAFETY WORKSTHE AND
GRANT PROGRAM FUND.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 8 –