PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 862

Chapter 862

(Senate Bill 429)

AN ACT concerning

Corporations and Associations – Protestant Episcopal Church, Diocese of
Washington ~~and~~ ~~Study~~ ~~of~~ ~~Property~~ ~~Held~~ ~~in~~ ~~Trust~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~United~~ ~~Methodist~~
~~Church~~

FOR the purpose of repealing uncodified provisions of law relating to the Protestant
Episcopal Church, Diocese of Washington, commonly known as the “Vestry Act”;
providing for the governance of religious corporations in union with the Protestant
Episcopal Church, Diocese of Washington; ~~requiring~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~
~~Assessments~~ ~~and~~ ~~Taxation~~ ~~to~~ ~~report~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~impact~~ ~~of~~ ~~repealing~~ ~~certain~~ ~~sections~~ ~~of~~
~~the~~ ~~Corporations~~ ~~and~~ ~~Associations~~ ~~Article;~~ and generally relating to the Protestant
Episcopal Church, Diocese of Washington ~~and~~ ~~a~~ ~~study~~ ~~of~~ ~~property~~ ~~held~~ ~~in~~ ~~trust~~ ~~by~~
~~the~~ ~~United~~ ~~Methodist~~ ~~Church.~~

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Corporations and Associations
Section 5–301(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Corporations and Associations
Section 5–301(e)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Corporations and Associations
Section 5–341 and 5–342 to be under the new part “Part VII. Protestant Episcopal
Church, Diocese of Washington”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2014 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing
Chapter 96 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 1976

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Corporations and Associations

5–301.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 862 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(a) In this part the following words have the meanings indicated.

(e) “Trustees” means:

(1) As to a religious corporation subject to Part II of this subtitle, the
corporators appointed or elected as provided in that part; and

[or], VI, PART(2) As to a religious corporation subject to Part V Part OR
VII of this subtitle, the members of the vestry.

5–339. RESERVED.

5–340. RESERVED.

PART VII. PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH, DIOCESE WASHINGTON.OF

5–341.

(A) THIS PART APPLIES TO EVERY RELIGIOUS CORPORATION FORMED IN
STATETHIS BY A PARISH OR SEPARATE CONGREGATION THAT IS IN UNION WITH OR
PROTESTANTINTENDING TO APPLY FOR UNION WITH THE CONVENTION OF THE
EPISCOPAL CHURCH DIOCESE WASHINGTON, ACTIN THE OF AS CREATED BY THE
CONGRESS MARCH 16, 1896 (29 STAT. 58).OF APPROVED

(B) (1) EXCEPT (2)AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS SUBSECTION
PART:OR OTHERWISE IN THIS

(I) PART I OF THIS SUBTITLE APPLIES TO AND REGULATES THE
CORPORATE AND TEMPORAL AFFAIRS OF EVERY RELIGIOUS CORPORATION
(A) SECTION,DESCRIBED IN SUBSECTION OF THIS INCLUDING THOSE
CHAPTER 24 ACTS GENERAL ASSEMBLYINCORPORATED UNDER OF THE OF THE OF
1798, CHAPTER 96 ACTS GENERAL ASSEMBLY 1976,UNDER OF THE OF THE OF OR
ACT GENERAL ASSEMBLY;BY SPECIAL OF THE AND

(II) TO CONSTITUTIONTHE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY THE
UNITED STATES STATE,OF THE OR OF THIS THE CHARTER OF EACH OF THEM IS
DEEMED TO BE AMENDED TO CONFORM TO THIS SUBTITLE UNTIL THE CHARTER
OTHERWISE IS AMENDED BY THE PARISH OR SEPARATE CONGREGATION AS
PART I SUBTITLE.PROVIDED IN OF THIS

(2) AS TO ANY PARISH OR SEPARATE CONGREGATION THAT WAS
MARYLAND CONSTITUTIONINCORPORATED BEFORE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE
1851 CHARTER,OF AND THEREFORE HAS AN IRREPEALABLE UNLESS THAT PARISH

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 862

ACCEPTS, USES, ENJOYS,OR SEPARATE CONGREGATION OR IN ANY WAY AVAILS
RIGHT, PRIVILEGE,ITSELF OF ANY OR ADVANTAGE GRANTED OR CONFERRED BY
NOVEMBER 3, 1891:ANY STATUTE ENACTED AFTER

(I) PART I OF THIS SUBTITLE DOES NOT APPLY TO THE PARISH
CONGREGATION;OR SEPARATE AND

(II) THE PARISH OR SEPARATE CONGREGATION CONTINUES TO
INCORPORATED.BE GOVERNED BY THE STATUTE UNDER WHICH IT WAS

5–342.

(A) (1) EACH RELIGIOUS CORPORATION SUBJECT TO THIS PART SHALL
AFFAIRS.ADOPT BYLAWS TO GOVERN ITS CORPORATE AND TEMPORAL

(2) BYLAWS MAY BE ADOPTED BY A MAJORITY OF THE QUALIFIED
VOTERS VOTING AT A REGULAR OR SPECIAL CONGREGATIONAL MEETING CALLED
PURPOSE.FOR THAT

(B) EACH RELIGIOUS CORPORATION SUBJECT TO THIS PART IS SUBJECT AT
ALL TIMES TO THE CONSTITUTION AND CANONS OF THE CONVENTION OF THE
PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH DIOCESE WASHINGTONIN THE OF AND OF THE
PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH UNITED STATES AMERICA.IN THE OF

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That Chapter 96 of the Acts of the
General Assembly of 1976 be repealed.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That since the vestries previously
incorporated under the provisions of the original Vestry Act have not been required to file
and record a certificate of incorporation, and the vestries of any separate congregation, after
union with the convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the Diocese of
Washington, have not been required to file and record a supplemental certificate signifying
that union, the State Department of Assessments and Taxation, or its successor
administrative body, may file and record a certificate, similar in every respect to the
certificate required by § 5–304(b) of the Corporations and Associations Article, on the
request of:

(1) any parish or separate congregation offering its own certificate for
record; or

(2) the convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the Diocese of
Washington on behalf of any parish or separate congregation that neglects or declines for
any reason to offer its own certificate for record, in which event the certificate may be made
and signed by the secretary of the convention instead of the vestry of the parish or separate
congregation.

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 862 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SECTION 4. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the legal existence of the
following parishes and separate congregations in union with the Convention of the
Protestant Episcopal Church in the Diocese of Washington as bodies corporate is recognized
and acknowledged for all purposes:

(1) in Mongomery County, Maryland: The Vestry of Ascension Parish, The
Vestry of Chevy Chase Parish, The Vestry of Christ Church Parish, The Vestry of Church
of Our Saviour, The Vestry of Good Shepherd Parish, The Vestry of Norwood Parish, The
Vestry of Potomac Parish, The Vestry of Prince George’s Parish, The Vestry of Redeemer
Parish, The Vestry of Silver Spring Parish, The Vestry of Sligo Parish, The Vestry of St.
Anne’s Parish, The Vestry of St. Bartholomew’s Parish, The Vestry of St. Dunstan’s Parish,
The Vestry of St. James’ Parish, The Vestry of St. John’s Church, The Vestry of St. Luke’s
Church, The Vestry of St. Mark’s Parish, The Vestry of St. Nicholas’ Parish, The Vestry of
St. Peter’s Parish, The Vestry of Transfiguration Parish, The Vestry of Trinity Parish, and
The Vestry of Wheaton Parish;

(2) in Prince George’s County, Maryland: The Vestry of Adelphi Parish,
The Vestry of Baden Parish, The Vestry of Clinton Parish, The Vestry of Epiphany Parish,
The Vestry of Glenn Dale Parish, The Vestry of Holy Trinity Parish, The Vestry of King
George’s Parish, The Vestry of Queen Anne Parish, The Vestry of St. Andrew’s Parish, The
Vestry of St. Barnabas’ Parish, The Vestry of St. Christopher’s Parish, The Vestry of St.
John’s Parish, The Vestry of St. Matthew’s Parish, The Vestry of St. Paul’s Parish, The
Vestry of St. Philip’s Parish, The Vestry of St. Thomas’ Parish, and The Vestry of Zion
Parish;

(3) in Charles County, Maryland: The Vestry of Durham Parish, The
Vestry of Piney Parish, The Vestry of Port Tobacco Parish, The Vestry of St. James’ Parish,
The Vestry of Trinity Parish, and The Vestry of William and Mary Parish; and

(4) in St. Mary’s County, Maryland: The Vestry of All Faith Parish, The
Vestry of All Saints’ Parish, The Vestry of King and Queen Parish, The Vestry of
Resurrection Parish, The Vestry of St. Andrew’s Parish, and The Vestry of St. Mary’s
Parish.

SECTION 5. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That the bodies corporate named
in Section 4 of this Act shall be deemed properly incorporated and all persons, entities, and
instrumentalities, including the courts of this State and units of State government, shall
be estopped from denying the legal existence of those bodies corporate.

SECTION 6. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act does not prohibit the
future dissolution or merger of the bodies corporate named in Section 4 of this Act pursuant
to the constitution and canons of the Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the
Diocese of Washington and the applicable provisions of the laws of this State.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 862

~~SECTION~~ ~~7.~~ ~~AND~~ ~~BE~~ ~~IT~~ ~~FURTHER~~ ~~ENACTED,~~ ~~That,~~ ~~on~~ ~~or~~ ~~before~~ ~~December~~ ~~31,~~
~~2024,~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Department~~ ~~of~~ ~~Assessments~~ ~~and~~ ~~Taxation~~ ~~shall~~ ~~report~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~General~~
~~Assembly,~~ ~~in~~ ~~accordance~~ ~~with~~ ~~§~~ ~~2–1257~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~State~~ ~~Government~~ ~~Article,~~ ~~on~~ ~~the~~ ~~impact~~ ~~of~~
~~repealing:~~

~~(1)~~ ~~the~~ ~~requirement~~ ~~in~~ ~~§~~ ~~5–326~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Corporations~~ ~~and~~ ~~Associations~~ ~~Article~~
~~that~~ ~~certain~~ ~~assets~~ ~~owned~~ ~~by~~ ~~any~~ ~~Methodist~~ ~~Church~~ ~~be~~ ~~held~~ ~~by~~ ~~the~~ ~~trustees~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~church~~
~~in~~ ~~trust~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~United~~ ~~Methodist~~ ~~Church;~~ ~~and~~

~~(2)~~ ~~the~~ ~~restrictions~~ ~~in~~ ~~§~~ ~~5–327~~ ~~of~~ ~~the~~ ~~Corporations~~ ~~and~~ ~~Associations~~ ~~Article~~
~~on~~ ~~a~~ ~~deed~~ ~~or~~ ~~conveyance~~ ~~executed~~ ~~before~~ ~~June~~ ~~1,~~ ~~1953,~~ ~~that~~ ~~does~~ ~~not~~ ~~include~~ ~~a~~ ~~trust~~ ~~clause.~~

SECTION ~~7.~~ ~~8.~~ 7. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
July 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 5 –