PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 180

Chapter 180

(Senate Bill 434)

AN ACT concerning

Education – State Library Resource Center – Funding

FOR the purpose of altering the calculation of certain funding for the State Library
Resource Center for certain fiscal years; and generally relating to the State Library
Resource Center.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Education
Section 23–201
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Education
Section 23–205(d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2022 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Education

23–201.

(a) The Central Library of the Enoch Pratt Free Library System is the State
Library Resource Center.

(b) The State Library Resource Center shall provide and expand access to
specialized library materials and services that are necessary for coordinated, efficient, and
economical library services in this State.

23–205.

(d) (1) Each year the State Library Resource Center shall receive a minimum
amount of funding for each State resident in the previous fiscal year, to be used for
operating and capital expenses.

(2) The allocation shall be calculated as follows:

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 180 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(i) For each of fiscal years 2010 through 2016............$1.67 per State
resident;

(ii) For fiscal year 2017................................$1.69 per State resident;

(iii) For fiscal year 2018................................$1.73 per State resident;

(iv) For fiscal year 2019................................$1.77 per State resident;

(v) For fiscal year 2020................................$1.81 per State resident;

(vi) For fiscal year 2021................................$1.85 per State resident;

(vii) For fiscal year 2022................................$1.89 per State resident;

[and](viii) For fiscal year 2023..................... $1.93 per State resident;

~~[year]~~ ~~2025~~ [and(ix) For fiscal 2024 each~~EACH~~ ~~OF~~ ~~YEARS~~ ~~AND~~
thereafter]………………………………………………$1.97 resident;fiscal year per State AND

(X) FOR ~~2026~~ 2025FISCAL YEAR AND EACH FISCAL YEAR
THEREAFTER………………………………………………….$2.07 STATE RESIDENT;PER

~~(XI)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2027~~ ~~2026............$2.15~~ ~~STATE~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~PER~~
~~RESIDENT;~~ ~~AND~~

~~(XII)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2028~~ ~~2027~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~
~~THEREAFTER.....................................................................$2.24~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESIDENT;~~~~PER~~

~~(XIII)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2029............$2.33~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESIDENT;~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~PER~~

~~(XIV)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2030............$2.42~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESIDENT;~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~PER~~
~~AND~~

~~(XV)~~ ~~FOR~~ ~~2031~~~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~ ~~AND~~ ~~EACH~~ ~~FISCAL~~ ~~YEAR~~
~~THEREAFTER.....................................................................$2.52~~ ~~STATE~~ ~~RESIDENT.~~~~PER~~

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, April 25, 2024.

– 2 –