PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 900

Chapter 900

(Senate Bill 402)

AN ACT concerning

Correctional Training Commission – Membership – Alterations

FOR the purpose of altering the membership of the Correctional Training Commission;
requiring certain members of the Commission appointed by the Governor to
represent certain geographic regions; and generally relating to the Correctional
Training Commission.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Correctional Services
Section 8–204
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2017 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Correctional Services

8–204.

(1) IN(a) THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

(2) “CAPITAL REGION” FREDERICK COUNTY, MONTGOMERYMEANS
COUNTY, PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.AND

(3) “CENTRAL REGION” ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY,MEANS
BALTIMORE CITY, BALTIMORE COUNTY, CARROLL COUNTY, HARFORD COUNTY,
HOWARD COUNTY.AND

(4) “EASTERN SHORE REGION” CAROLINE COUNTY, CECILMEANS
COUNTY, DORCHESTER COUNTY, KENT COUNTY, QUEEN ANNE’S COUNTY,
SOMERSET COUNTY, TALBOT COUNTY, WICOMICO COUNTY, WORCESTERAND
COUNTY.

(5) “SOUTHERN REGION” CALVERT COUNTY, CHARLESMEANS
COUNTY, ST. MARY’S COUNTY.AND

(6) “WESTERN REGION” ALLEGANY COUNTY, GARRETTMEANS

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 900 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

COUNTY, WASHINGTON COUNTY.AND

(B) The Commission consists of the following members:

(1) the Secretary of Public Safety and Correctional Services;

(2) the Secretary of Juvenile Services;

(3) a representative of the Department of Public Safety and Correctional
Services, designated by the Secretary of Public Safety and Correctional Services;

(4) a representative of the Department of Juvenile Services, designated by
the Secretary of Juvenile Services;

(5) a Deputy Secretary of Public Safety and Correctional Services;

(6) the president of the Maryland Correctional Administrators Association;

(7) the president of the Maryland Sheriffs Association;

(8) the president of the Maryland Criminal Justice Association;

[a(9) representative of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, designated by its
Director;

(10)] the Attorney General of the State;

[(11)] (10) the president of a university or college in the State with a
correctional education curriculum, appointed by the Maryland Higher Education
Commission;

[(12)] (11) one correctional officer of the State recommended by the
exclusive representative for the officers covered under Title 10, Subtitle 9 of this article and
appointed by the Governor; and

[(13)] (12) [four] [of State]correctional officers or officials theFIVE
[(b)] (C)appointed under subsection of this section.

[(b)] (C) (1) The Governor shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the
[four]Senate, correctional officers or officialsFIVE FROM LOCAL CORRECTIONAL
Commission[,to be members of the at least one of whom shall be a DepartmentFACILITIES
official].of Juvenile Services employee or

[four](2) The members appointed under paragraph (1) of thisFIVE
[different]subsection shall represent geographic areas of theEACH OF THE FOLLOWING

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 900

State:

(I) REGION;THE CAPITAL

(II) REGION;THE CENTRAL

(III) EASTERN SHORE REGION;THE

(IV) REGION;THE SOUTHERN AND

(V) REGION.THE WESTERN

(3) The term of a member who is appointed under paragraph (1) of this
subsection is 3 years.

(4) The terms of the members who are appointed under paragraph (1) of
this subsection are staggered as required by the terms provided for members of the
[October 1999] JUNE 1, 2024.Commission on 1,

(5) (i) At the end of a term, a member who was appointed under
paragraph (1) of this subsection continues to serve until a successor is appointed and
qualifies.

(ii) A member who is appointed after a term has begun serves only
for the remainder of the term and until a successor is appointed and qualifies.

[(c)] (D) [four]Except for the members appointed by the Governor underFIVE
[(b)] (C)subsection of this section, a member of the Commission may serve personally at a
Commission meeting or designate a representative from the member’s unit or association
who may act at any meeting to the same effect as if the member were personally present.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That:

(a) The terms of the following correctional officers or officials appointed by the
Governor shall expire as follows:

(1) the member whose term is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2024, shall
be succeeded by a member appointed from one of the available regions under § 8–204(c)(2)
of the Correctional Services Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act;

(2) the members whose terms are scheduled to expire on June 30, 2025,
shall be succeeded by members appointed from the available regions under § 8–204(c)(2) of
the Correctional Services Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act; and

(3) the member whose term is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2026, shall

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 900 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

be succeeded by a member appointed from one of the available regions under § 8–204(c)(2)
of the Correctional Services Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act.

(b) The Governor shall appoint a fifth member to the Commission under §
8–204(c) of the Correctional Services Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act, to begin
that member’s term on July 1, 2024, from one of the available regions under § 8–204(c)(2)
of the Correctional Services Article, as enacted by Section 1 of this Act.

SECTION 3. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 4 –