PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 941

Chapter 941

(Senate Bill 452)

AN ACT concerning

Courts – Prohibited Liability Agreements – Recreational Facilities

FOR the purpose of establishing that a provision in a contract or agreement relating to the
use of a recreational facility that purports to limit the recreational facility’s liability,
or release the recreational facility from or indemnify or hold harmless the
recreational facility against liability, for injury caused by negligence or other
wrongful acts is void and unenforceable under certain circumstances; and generally
relating to liability agreements and recreational facilities.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Business Regulation
Section 15–201(a) and (c)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2015 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Commercial Law
Section 14–12B–01(a) and (d)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2013 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings
Section 5–401.2
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2020 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Business Regulation

15–201.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(c) “Lodging establishment” means an inn, hotel, motel, or other establishment
that has at least four rooms available for a fee to transient guests for lodging or sleeping
purposes.

Article – Commercial Law
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 941 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

14–12B–01.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(d) (1) “Health club services agreement” means an agreement under which:

(i) The buyer of a health club service purchases, or becomes
obligated to purchase, health club services to be rendered over a period longer than 3
months;

(ii) The seller of a health club services agreement collects more than
3 months’ payment in advance; and

(iii) The service to be rendered under the agreement is for personal,
family, or household use.

(2) “Health club services” includes health spa, figure salon, weight
reduction center, self defense school, or other physical culture service enterprises offering
facilities for the preservation, maintenance, encouragement, or development of physical
fitness or physical well–being.

(3) “Health club services” does not include agreements for services
rendered by:

(i) Any nonprofit public or private school, college, or university;

(ii) The State, or any of its political subdivisions; or

(iii) Any nonprofit religious, ethnic, community, or service
organization.

Article – Courts and Judicial Proceedings

5–401.2.

(A) (1) IN SECTION, “RECREATIONAL FACILITY”THIS MEANS A
FACILITY, FACILITY,COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL A COMMERCIAL ATHLETIC OR AN
ATTRACTION.AMUSEMENT

(2) “RECREATIONAL FACILITY” INCLUDES:

(I) GYMNASIUMS; AND

(II) SWIMMING POOLS.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 941

(3) “RECREATIONAL FACILITY” ~~A:~~DOES NOT INCLUDE

(I) A ESTABLISHMENT, § 15–201LODGING AS DEFINED IN OF
BUSINESS REGULATION ARTICLE,THE UNLESS THE LODGING ESTABLISHMENT
OWNS, MAINTAINS, OR OPERATES A RECREATIONAL FACILITY THAT IS AVAILABLE
PUBLIC;FOR USE BY THE GENERAL OR

(II) A STATEUNIT OF OR LOCAL GOVERNMENT THAT LEASES
FACILITY.LAND OR FACILITIES TO A RECREATIONAL

(B) THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY TO A HEALTH CLUB SERVICES
AGREEMENT, § 14–12B–01 COMMERCIAL LAW ARTICLE,AS DEFINED IN OF THE FOR
ADULT.SERVICES TO BE RENDERED FOR AN

~~(B)~~ (C) ANY PROVISION IN A CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT RELATING TO
THE USE OF A RECREATIONAL FACILITY THAT PURPORTS TO LIMIT THE
FACILITY’S LIABILITY,RECREATIONAL OR RELEASE THE RECREATIONAL FACILITY
FROM OR INDEMNIFY OR HOLD HARMLESS THE RECREATIONAL FACILITY AGAINST
LIABILITY, FOR INJURY CAUSED BY OR RESULTING FROM THE NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER WRONGFUL ACT OF THE RECREATIONAL FACILITY OR ITS AGENTS OR
ON–DUTY EMPLOYEES IS AGAINST PUBLIC POLICY AND IS VOID AND
UNENFORCEABLE.

~~(C)~~ (D) THIS AFFECT, EXTEND,SECTION MAY NOT BE INTERPRETED TO
OR LIMIT THE LIABILITY OF A GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY FOR A TORT OR OTHER CLAIM
TITLE 12, SUBTITLE 1 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLESUBJECT TO OF THE OR
SUBTITLE 3 TITLE.OF THIS

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 3 –