PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 441

Chapter 441

(Senate Bill 524)

AN ACT concerning

General Assembly – Committee Chairs and Vice Chairs – Gender–Neutral
Language

FOR the purpose of altering certain terminology that refers to chairs and vice chairs of
committees of the General Assembly to be gender–neutral; and generally relating to
chairs and vice chairs of committees of the General Assembly.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Government
Section 2–403(a), 2–404, 2–405(b), 2–406(b)(1), 2–504, 2–604, 2–704(a), 2–804,
2–805(b), 2–904, 2–1003(a)(2) and (b), 2–10A–01(d), 2–10A–06(f),
2–1224(d)(2), 2–1258(a)(2), 2–1505(c)(2) and (f), 2–1605, and 2–1609(h)(2)(v)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – State Government

2–403.

(a) The Legislative Policy Committee consists of the following 28 members:

(1) from the Senate:

(i) the President;

(ii) the President Pro Tem;

(iii) the Majority Leader;

[Chairman] CHAIR(iv) the of the Budget and Taxation Committee;

[Chairman] CHAIR [Education,(v) the of the Health, and
Committee] COMMITTEE EDUCATION, ENERGY,Environmental Affairs ON AND THE
ENVIRONMENT;

[Chairman] CHAIR(vi) the of the Finance Committee;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 441 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[Chairman] CHAIR(vii) the of the Judicial Proceedings Committee;

(viii) the Minority Leader; and

(ix) 1. 6 other Senators, appointed by the President and approved
by majority vote of the Senate; or

2. if a Senator simultaneously serves in 2 of the positions set
[paragraph]forth in items (ii) through (vii), inclusive, of this ITEM, 7 other Senators,
appointed by the President and approved by majority vote of the Senate; and

(2) from the House:

(i) the Speaker;

(ii) the Speaker Pro Tem;

(iii) the Majority Leader;

[Chairman] CHAIR(iv) the of the Appropriations Committee;

[Chairman] CHAIR(v) the of the Health and Government
Operations Committee;

[Chairman] CHAIR(vi) the of the Economic Matters Committee;

[Chairman] CHAIR(vii) the of the Environment and Transportation
Committee;

[Chairman] CHAIR(viii) the of the Judiciary Committee;

[Chairman] CHAIR(ix) the of the Ways and Means Committee;

(x) the Minority Leader; and

(xi) 1. 4 other Delegates, appointed by the Speaker and approved
by majority vote of the House; or

2. if a Delegate simultaneously serves in 2 of the positions
[paragraph]set forth in items (ii) through (ix), inclusive, of this ITEM, 5 other Delegates,
appointed by the Speaker and approved by majority vote of the House.

2–404.

[cochairmen]The President and the Speaker are of the Committee.COCHAIRS

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 441

2–405.

[cochairmen](b) (1) If a vacancy occurs in one of the offices of ofCOCHAIRS
the Committee, a successor shall be elected:

[cochairman](i) for the Senate COCHAIR, by the Senators on the
Committee; and

[cochairman](ii) for the House COCHAIR, by the Delegates on the
Committee.

[cochairmen](2) If vacancies occur in both offices of the of theCOCHAIRS
Committee, the successors shall be elected from among the remaining members of the
[cochairmen]Committee by those members. One of the shall be a Senator, andCOCHAIRS
one shall be a Delegate.

2–406.

(b) (1) The Committee shall meet as often as necessary, at the times and places
[cochairmen]that its determine.COCHAIRS

2–504.

[Chairman] [Chairman]The Senate and the House of the CommitteeCHAIR CHAIR
shall be appointed by the President and the Speaker, respectively, from the membership of
the Committee. One shall be a Senator appointed by the President, and the other shall be
[chairmanship]a Delegate appointed by the Speaker. The presiding andCHAIRSHIP
[cochairmanship] shall be alternated annually between the Senate and theCOCHAIRSHIP
House.

2–604.

[chairman]The President and the Speaker jointly shall appoint the and theCHAIR
[chairman]vice of the Committee.CHAIR

2–704.

(a) The President and the Speaker:

[chairman] [chairman](1) jointly shall appoint a and a viceCHAIR CHAIR
of the Committee; or

[cochairman](2) each shall appoint a of the Committee.COCHAIR

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 441 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

2–804.

[chairman]The President and the Speaker jointly shall appoint the and theCHAIR
[chairman]vice of the Committee.CHAIR

2–805.

(b) The Committee shall meet:

(1) at the times and places that it determines; and

[chairman] [chairman](2) at the call of its or, if the isCHAIR CHAIR
[chairman]absent, at the call of its vice CHAIR.

2–904.

[chairman](a) The President and the Speaker jointly shall appoint a andCHAIR
[chairman]a vice of the Committee.CHAIR

[chairman](b) (1) The President shall appoint a of the SenateCHAIR
members of the Committee.

[chairman](2) The Speaker shall appoint a of the House membersCHAIR
of the Committee.

2–1003.

(a) On or before June 1 of each year, the Legislative Policy Committee shall create
a Spending Affordability Committee comprised of an equal number of Senators and
Delegates. The Committee membership includes:

[chairmen](2) the of the Senate Budget and Taxation CommitteeCHAIRS
and the House Appropriations Committee;

[chairman](b) The of the Committee shall be designated jointly by theCHAIR
President and the Speaker.

2–10A–01.

(d) The President and the Speaker shall jointly appoint a Senator and a Delegate
[cochairman]each to serve as COCHAIRS.

2–10A–06.

(f) (1) From among the membership of the Committee, the President shall

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 441

[chairman]appoint a Senator to serve as the Senate of the Committee and theCHAIR
[chairman]Speaker shall appoint a Delegate to serve as the House of theCHAIR
Committee.

[chairman] [chairman](2) The Senate and the House shallCHAIR CHAIR
[chairman] [cochairman]alternate annually as presiding and of theCHAIR COCHAIR
Committee.

2–1224.

(d) The Legislative Auditor shall send a copy of the report to:

[Chairmen](2) the of the Senate Budget and Taxation and HouseCHAIRS
Appropriations Committees;

2–1258.

(a) (2) On request, the Department shall provide one additional copy of an
annotated code of Maryland to each:

(i) presiding officer;

(ii) pro tempore officer;

[chairman](iii) of a standing committee;CHAIR

(iv) majority leader; and

(v) minority leader.

2–1505.

[chairman](c) (2) If the of the committee to which a bill is referredCHAIR
certifies that prompt committee action on the bill is needed to conduct legislative business
and, before the Department prepares the fiscal note for the bill, holds a hearing on the bill,
the Department shall prepare the note as soon after the hearing as possible.

(f) As soon as possible after the adoption of an amendment that changes the fiscal
impact of a bill, the Department of Legislative Services shall:

(1) prepare a revised fiscal note for the bill; and

(2) send the revised note:

[chairman](i) to the of the committee to which the bill isCHAIR
referred in the house of origin;
– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 441 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[chairman](ii) if the bill has reached the opposite house, to the
of the committee to which the bill is referred in that house;CHAIR

(iii) if the bill is in the custody of either the Secretary of the Senate
or the Chief Clerk of the House, to that officer; and

(iv) to the primary sponsor of the bill.

2–1605.

[chairman chairman](a) An investigating committee shall have the and vice
who:CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR

(1) are appointed by the resolution that establishes the investigating
committee; or

(2) if the resolution does not appoint these officers, are elected by
affirmative vote of a majority of all of the members of the investigating committee.

(b) The rules of an investigating committee shall provide for the selection of a
[chairman chairman]presiding officer to act if the and vice areCHAIR AND VICE CHAIR
absent or unable to act.

(c) (1) At a hearing of an investigating committee, the presiding officer shall
be:

[chairman](i) the of the investigating committee;CHAIR

[chairman](ii) if the is absent or otherwise unable to preside,CHAIR
[chairman]the vice CHAIR; or

[chairman chairman](iii) if the and vice CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR
are absent or otherwise unable to preside, the individual who is selected under the rules of
the investigating committee.

(2) At a hearing, the presiding officer:

(i) shall examine the witnesses or supervise the examination by any
other member of the investigating committee or by staff who are authorized to examine
witnesses; and

(ii) may direct a witness to answer a relevant question or to provide
a relevant book, document, or paper.

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 441

2–1609.

(h) (2) The record shall include:

(v) any other matter that the investigating committee or its
[chairman] directs.CHAIR

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 7 –