PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 470

Chapter 470

(Senate Bill 781)

AN ACT concerning

Economic Development – Regional Additive Manufacturing Partnership of
Maryland – Alterations

FOR the purpose of renaming the Regional Additive Manufacturing Partnership of
Maryland to be the Regional Advanced Manufacturing Partnership of Maryland;
altering the purposes and duties of the Partnership and composition of the Executive
Board of the Partnership; renaming the Regional Additive Manufacturing
Partnership of Maryland Fund to be the Regional Advanced Manufacturing
Partnership of Maryland Fund; and generally relating to the Regional Additive
Manufacturing Partnership of Maryland and advanced manufacturing.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Economic Development
Section 13–1201, 13–1202(a) and (c), 13–1203(b), 13–1207(2), (3), and (5), and
13–1211(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2018 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(i)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – State Finance and Procurement
Section 6–226(a)(2)(ii)79.
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2021 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Economic Development

13–1201.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 470 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[“Additive(b) manufacturing” means a process of joining materials to make
objects from three–dimensional model data, usually layer upon layer, as opposed to
subtractive manufacturing methodologies.

(c)] “Board” means the Executive Board of the Partnership.

[(d)] (C) “Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Partnership.

[(e)] (D) [Additive] ADVANCED“Fund” means the Regional Manufacturing
Partnership of Maryland Fund, also known as the RAMP MD Fund.

[(f)] (E) [Additive] ADVANCED“Partnership” means the Regional
Manufacturing Partnership of Maryland, also known as RAMP MD.

[(g)] (F) “Region” means Cecil and Harford counties.

13–1202.

[Additive] ADVANCED(a) There is a Regional Manufacturing Partnership of
Maryland.

(c) The purposes of the Partnership are to:

(1) foster the economic development of the region by:

(i) promoting collaboration among government, businesses,
educational institutions, and entrepreneurs and innovators; and

[additive](ii) leveraging the established manufacturingADVANCED
investments in the region, including the facilities at Aberdeen Proving Ground; and

[additive](2) position the State as a leader in manufacturing.ADVANCED

13–1203.

(b) (1) The Board consists of the members described in this subsection.

(2) The voting members of the Board are:

(i) the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary’s designee;

(ii) the President of Harford Community College, or the President’s
designee;

(iii) the President of Cecil College, or the President’s designee;

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 470

(iv) the President of Towson University, or the President’s designee;

(v) one representative of the Governor’s Workforce Development
Board, appointed by the Executive Director of the Board;

(vi) the Commanding General of Aberdeen Proving Ground, or the
Commanding General’s designee;

(vii) the Director of the Regional Manufacturing Institute, or the
Director’s designee;

(viii) the Superintendent of the Harford County Public Schools, or the
Superintendent’s designee;

(ix) the Superintendent of the Cecil County Public Schools, or the
Superintendent’s designee;

(x) the County Executive of Cecil County, or the County Executive’s
designee;

(xi) the County Executive of Harford County, or the County
Executive’s designee;

(xii) one representative of the Susquehanna Workforce Network,
appointed by the Executive Director of the network;

(xiii) one representative of the Army Alliance, appointed by the
Executive Director of the alliance;

(xiv) one representative of the Northeastern Maryland Technology
Council, appointed by the Executive Director of the council;

(xv) the Director of the Cecil County Public Library, or the Director’s
designee;

(xvi) the Director of the Harford County Public Library, or the
Director’s designee;

[at(xvii) least one representative of 3D Maryland, appointed by the
Director of 3D Maryland;

(xviii)] one representative of the Maryland Manufacturing
Advisory Board, appointed by the Chair of the Board;

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 470 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

[(xix)] (XVIII) at least six representatives of industry who reflect
[additive]the influential and emerging industries using manufacturing asADVANCED
determined by the Department, appointed by the Secretary of Commerce; and

[(xx)] (XIX) at least one representative of each organization focused on
[additive] manufacturing in the State that is interested in collaborating withADVANCED
the Partnership, appointed by the Director of the representative’s respective organization.

(3) In addition to the voting members, the Executive Director of the
Partnership shall serve as an ex officio nonvoting member of the Board.

(4) To the extent practicable, the members of the Board shall reasonably
reflect the geographic, racial, ethnic, cultural, and gender diversity of the State.

13–1207.

To further the purposes of this subtitle, the Partnership shall:

(2) facilitate the involvement of Harford Community College, Cecil College,
Towson University, and other segments of the higher education community in developing
[additive]and sustaining a skilled manufacturing workforce through degree,ADVANCED
certification, specialized training, and continuing education programs;

(3) assist the Cecil County and Harford County public school systems in
[additive]preparing students for employment in the manufacturing workforce;ADVANCED

(5) obtain, coordinate, and disseminate marketing resources to promote
[additive]and enhance manufacturing opportunities and investment in theADVANCED
region;

13–1211.

[Additive] ADVANCED(a) There is a Regional Manufacturing Partnership of
Maryland Fund.

Article – State Finance and Procurement

6–226.

(a) (2) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and unless
inconsistent with a federal law, grant agreement, or other federal requirement or with the
terms of a gift or settlement agreement, net interest on all State money allocated by the
State Treasurer under this section to special funds or accounts, and otherwise entitled to
receive interest earnings, as accounted for by the Comptroller, shall accrue to the General
Fund of the State.

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 470

(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (i) of this paragraph do not apply
to the following funds:

[Additive] ADVANCED79. the Regional Manufacturing
Partnership of Maryland Fund;

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 5 –