PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 445

Chapter 445

(Senate Bill 808)

AN ACT concerning

Anaerobic Digestion Technology – Coordination and Guidance

FOR the purpose of requiring the Department of Agriculture to coordinate with certain
State agencies and other stakeholders to ensure anaerobic digestion technology
projects are ~~not~~ ~~unduly~~ ~~delayed~~ appropriately coordinated; requiring the
Department, in coordination with certain State agencies, to establish certain
guidance for farmers regarding the development and implementation of anaerobic
digestion technology; and generally relating to anaerobic digestion technology.

BY adding to
Article – Agriculture
Section 2–2301 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle 23. Anaerobic Digestion
Technology”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Replacement Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Agriculture

SUBTITLE 23. ANAEROBIC DIGESTION TECHNOLOGY.

2–2301.

(A) THE DEPARTMENT MARYLAND ENERGYSHALL COORDINATE WITH THE
ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT ENVIRONMENT, DEPARTMENTTHE OF THE THE
COMMERCE, UNIVERSITY MARYLAND COLLEGE AGRICULTUREOF THE OF OF AND
NATURAL RESOURCES, UNIVERSITY MARYLAND EASTERN SHORE,THE OF
COMPANIES, FARMERS,ELECTRIC AND INDUSTRY TO ENSURE ANAEROBIC
DIGESTION TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS ARE ~~NOT~~ ~~UNDULY~~ ~~DELAYED~~ APPROPRIATELY
COORDINATED.

(B) (1) THE DEPARTMENT, MARYLANDIN COORDINATION WITH THE
ENERGY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT ENVIRONMENT,THE OF THE AND THE
DEPARTMENT COMMERCE,OF SHALL ESTABLISH GUIDANCE FOR FARMERS
REGARDING THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ANAEROBIC DIGESTION
TECHNOLOGY.

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 445 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(2) THE (1)GUIDANCE ESTABLISHED UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
ON:SUBSECTION SHALL INCLUDE INFORMATION

(I) OBTAINING REQUIRED PERMITS AND ELECTRIC
INTERCONNECTION;

(II) AVAILABLE REBATES;TAX INCENTIVES AND ENERGY AND

(III) RELEVANT SYSTEMS,REGULATIONS FOR WASTE
INCLUDING FOR SYSTEMS THAT INCORPORATE ANIMAL WASTE AND OTHER
RESOURCES, WASTE.SUCH AS FOOD

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 9, 2024.

– 2 –