PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 803

Chapter 803

(Senate Bill 881)

AN ACT concerning

Public Health – Federally Qualified Health Centers Grant Program – Recovery
of Funding

FOR the purpose of altering the number of years after completion of a project funded in
part by a grant of the Federally Qualified Health Centers Grant Program after which
the State may recover funding under certain circumstances; and generally relating
to recovery proceedings and the Federally Qualified Health Centers Grant Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 24–1302
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 24–1306(a)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

24–1302.

(a) There is a Federally Qualified Health Centers Grant Program.

(b) On the recommendation of the Secretary, the Board of Public Works may
make grants to counties, municipal corporations, and nonprofit organizations for:

(1) The conversion of public buildings or parts of public buildings to
federally qualified health centers;

(2) The acquisition of existing buildings or parts of buildings for use as
federally qualified health centers;

(3) The renovation of federally qualified health centers;

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 803 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(4) The purchase of capital equipment for federally qualified health
centers; or

(5) The planning, design, and construction of federally qualified health
centers.

24–1306.

(1) EXCEPT (2)(a) ~~The~~ AS PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION, State may recover from either the transferor or transferee or, in theTHE
case of a property that has ceased to be a federally qualified health center, from the owner,
an amount bearing the same ratio to the then current value of so much of the property as
constituted an approved project as the amount of the State participation bore to the total
eligible cost of the approved project, together with all costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees
~~[30]~~ ~~15~~incurred by the State in the recovery proceedings, if, ~~within~~ ~~years~~ ~~after~~ ~~completion~~
~~of~~ ~~a~~ ~~project,~~ a property for which funds have been paid under this subtitle:

(I)~~(1)~~ Is sold or transferred to any person, agency, or organization that
would not qualify as an applicant under this subtitle, or that is not approved as a transferee
by the Board of Public Works; or

(II)~~(2)~~ Ceases to be a federally qualified health center as defined in this
subtitle.

(2) THE STATE (1)MAY NOT RECOVER UNDER PARAGRAPH OF THIS
SUBSECTION:

(I) IF THE PROPERTY WAS LEASED BY THE FEDERALLY
CENTER, 15QUALIFIED HEALTH MORE THAN YEARS AFTER COMPLETION OF THE
PROJECT; OR

(II) IF THE PROPERTY WAS OWNED BY THE FEDERALLY
CENTER, 30QUALIFIED HEALTH MORE THAN YEARS AFTER COMPLETION OF THE
PROJECT.

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 2 –