PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1045

Chapter 1045

(Senate Bill 964)

AN ACT concerning

Carroll County – Alcoholic Beverages Licenses – Alcohol Awareness Training

FOR the purpose of requiring ~~an~~ the holder of a Class B or Class D alcoholic beverages
license ~~holder~~ in Carroll County or an individual designated by the license holder
who has completed training in an approved alcohol awareness program to be present
on the licensed premises at certain times when alcoholic beverages may be sold;
providing for certain penalties; requiring at least one license holder to maintain
alcohol awareness program certification while listed on the license; and generally
relating to alcoholic beverages in Carroll County.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 4–505(e) and 16–102
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 16–1901
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

BY adding to
Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis
Section 16–1904
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2016 Volume and 2023 Supplement)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Alcoholic Beverages and Cannabis

4–505.

(e) A holder of any retail alcoholic beverages license or an employee designated
by the holder shall complete training in an approved alcohol awareness program.

16–102.

This title applies only in Carroll County.
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 1045 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

16–1901.

(a) The following sections of Title 4, Subtitle 5 (“Conduct of Local License
Holders”) of Division I of this article apply in the county without exception or variation:

(1) § 4–502 (“Storage of alcoholic beverages”);

(2) § 4–503 (“Solicitations and sales outside of licensed premises”);

[§(3) 4–505 (“Alcohol awareness program”);

(4)] § 4–506 (“Evidence of purchaser’s age”);

[(5)] (4) § 4–507 (“Retail delivery of alcoholic beverages”); and

[(6)] (5) § 4–508 (“Display of license”).

[Section 4–504] THE TITLE 4, SUBTITLE 5(b) FOLLOWING SECTIONS OF
(“CONDUCT LOCAL LICENSE HOLDERS”) DIVISION IOF OF OF THIS ARTICLE APPLY
COUNTY:IN THE

(1) § 4–504 [of(“Employment of underage individuals”) Division I of this
county], subtitle;article applies in the subject to § 16–1902 of this AND

(2) § 4–505 (“ALCOHOL PROGRAM”), §AWARENESS SUBJECT TO
16–1904 SUBTITLE.OF THIS

16–1904.

(A) THE CLASS B CLASS DHOLDER OF A OR LICENSE ~~HOLDER~~ OR AN
INDIVIDUAL DESIGNATED BY THE LICENSE HOLDER WHO IS EMPLOYED IN A
BE:SUPERVISORY CAPACITY SHALL

(1) PROGRAM;CERTIFIED BY AN APPROVED ALCOHOL AWARENESS
AND

(2) PRESENT ON THE LICENSED PREMISES DURING THE HOURS IN
SOLD.WHICH ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES MAY BE

(B) A TO:LICENSE HOLDER WHO VIOLATES THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT

(1) OFFENSE, $100 FINE;FOR THE FIRST A AND

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 1045

(2) OFFENSE, $500FOR EACH SUBSEQUENT A FINE NOT EXCEEDING
BOTH.OR A SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF THE LICENSE OR

(C) AT LEAST ONE INDIVIDUAL WHO IS LISTED ON THE LICENSE AS A
LICENSE HOLDER SHALL MAINTAIN A CURRENT CERTIFICATE REFLECTING THE
COMPLETION OF AN ALCOHOL AWARENESS PROGRAM WHILE THE INDIVIDUAL IS
LICENSE.LISTED ON THE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 3 –