PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

Chapter 722

(Senate Bill 966)

AN ACT concerning

Prior Authorizations of State Debt – Alterations

FOR the purpose of amending certain prior authorizations of State Debt to change the
names of certain grantees ~~and,~~ alter the authorized uses of certain grants, and
extend the termination date of certain grants; and generally relating to amending
prior authorizations of State Debt.

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 14 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2019
Section 1(3) Item ~~ZA00(DD)~~ ZA00(CK), ZA02(AD), and ZA03(U–2)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 537 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2020
Section 1(3) Item ~~ZA00(AG)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(BX)~~ ~~ZA00(BX)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(DF)~~ ZA00(DF) and ZA02(CY)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 537 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2020, as amended by Chapter
141 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023
Section 1(3) Item ZA00(BT)

BY adding to
Chapter 537 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2020, as amended by Chapter
141 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023
Section 1(3) Item ZA00(BT–2), (BT–3), (BT–4), and (BT–5)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 63 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2021
Section 1(3) Item ~~ZA00(AZ)~~ KA05(E), ZA00(DS), and ZA03(I) and (Y)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 63 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2021, as amended by Chapter 626
of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2022
Section 1(3) Item ZA00(EX), ZA02(CG), and ~~ZA03(CP)~~ ZA03(AX), (CP), and (CQ)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 63 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2021, as amended by Chapter 141
of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023
Section 1(3) Item ZA00(DU)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 344 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2022
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Section 1(3) Item KA05(B)(51), ZA00(CR), (DT), (EN), (GB), (GJ), (GQ), (HK), and
(HO), ~~and~~ ~~(IU),~~ ~~and~~ ZA02(AF) ~~and~~ ~~(AG),~~ (AG), and (CA) and ZA03(BE)

BY adding to
Chapter 344 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2022
Section 1(3) Item ZA00(GB–1), (GB–2), (GB–3), (GQ–1), and (GQ–2)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 344 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2022, as amended by Chapter
141 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023
Section 1(3) Item ZA00(JV) and ZA03(DV)

BY repealing and reenacting, with amendments,
Chapter 102 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023
Section 1(3) Item ~~ZA00(AJ)~~ ~~and~~ ~~(JJ)~~ ZA00(O), (T), (AD), (AJ), (BJ), (EQ), (GQ), (JJ),
(KW), and (LS) and ZA02(M) and (BK)

BY adding to
Chapter 102 of the Acts of the General Assembly of 2023
Section 1(3) Item ~~ZA00(AJ–2)~~ ZA00(O–1) and (AJ–1)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Chapter 14 of the Acts of 2019

Section 1(3)

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

~~(DD)~~ ~~[at~~ ~~Park].~~~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ ~~Amphitheatre~~ ~~Central~~
~~[Maryland~~~~Provide~~ ~~a~~ ~~grant~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~National~~ ~~Capital~~ ~~Park~~ ~~and~~
~~Commission]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Planning~~
~~REDEVELOPMENT~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~design,~~ ~~construction,~~
~~repair,~~ ~~renovation,~~ ~~reconstruction,~~ ~~site~~ ~~improvement,~~ ~~and~~
~~[a~~ ~~new]~~ ~~[at~~~~capital~~ ~~equipping~~ ~~of~~ ~~amphitheatre~~ ~~located~~~~AN~~
~~Park]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Central~~ ~~(Prince~~~~IN~~
~~250,000~~~~George’s~~ ~~County)~~ ~~.........................................................................~~

[Prince Facility] GYMNASIUM(CK) George’s Indoor Sport AND
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Provide a grant to the Board of
[Prince Inc.] COLLEGEDirectors of George’s Pride Lacrosse,
PARK ACADEMY, INC. for the acquisition, planning, design,
construction, repair, renovation, reconstruction, site
[theimprovement, and capital equipping of Prince George’s

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

Facility] GYMNASIUM RECREATIONALIndoor Sport AND
FACILITIES 600,000(Prince George’s County) ........................................

ZA02 LOCAL HOUSE OF DELEGATES INITIATIVES

(AD) [Carroll County] MANCHESTER VALLEY Turf Field. Provide
[equala grant to the lesser of (i) $150,000 or (ii) the amount of
provided,] [Countythe matching fund to the Board of
County] DIRECTORSCommissioners of Carroll OF THE
NORTH CARROLL RECREATION COUNCIL for the
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
[atreconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
one] [atleast turf field the former North Carroll High SchoolA
site], County. NOTWITHSTANDINGlocated in Carroll
SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT
150,000JUNE 1, 2031 (Carroll County) ............TERMINATE BEFORE

ZA03 LOCAL SENATE INITIATIVES

(U–2) [Carroll County] MANCHESTER VALLEY Turf Field. Provide
[equala grant to the lesser of (i) $50,000 or (ii) the amount of
provided,] [Countythe matching fund to the Board of
County] DIRECTORSCommissioners of Carroll OF THE
NORTH CARROLL RECREATION COUNCIL for the
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
[atreconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
one] [atleast turf field the former North Carroll High SchoolA
site], County. NOTWITHSTANDINGlocated in Carroll
SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT
JUNE 1, 2031 (Carroll County) ............TERMINATE BEFORE 50,000

Chapter 537 of the Acts of 2020

Section 1(3)

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

~~(AG)~~ ~~[–~~~~Johns~~ ~~Hopkins~~ ~~Bayview~~ ~~Medical~~ ~~Center~~ ~~New~~ ~~Inpatient~~
~~Renovation].~~~~Building~~ ~~and~~ ~~Provide~~ ~~a~~ ~~grant~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Board~~ ~~of~~
~~Trustees~~ ~~of~~ ~~Johns~~ ~~Hopkins~~ ~~Health~~ ~~System~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~acquisition,~~
~~planning,~~ ~~design,~~ ~~construction,~~ ~~repair,~~ ~~renovation,~~
~~[an~~~~reconstruction,~~ ~~site~~ ~~improvement,~~ ~~and~~ ~~capital~~ ~~equipping~~ ~~of~~
~~building]~~ ~~JOHNS~~ ~~HOPKINS~~ ~~BAYVIEW~~~~inpatient~~ ~~THE~~
~~MEDICAL~~ ~~CENTER~~ ~~(Baltimore~~ ~~City)~~ ~~.........................................~~ ~~2,000,000~~

– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~(BX)~~ ~~[at~~ ~~Park].~~~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ ~~Amphitheatre~~ ~~Central~~
~~[Maryland–National~~~~Provide~~ ~~a~~ ~~grant~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Capital~~ ~~Park~~ ~~and~~
~~Commission]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Planning~~
~~REDEVELOPMENT~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~design,~~ ~~construction,~~
~~repair,~~ ~~renovation,~~ ~~reconstruction,~~ ~~site~~ ~~improvement,~~ ~~and~~
~~[a~~ ~~new]~~ ~~[at~~~~capital~~ ~~equipping~~ ~~of~~ ~~amphitheatre~~ ~~located~~~~AN~~
~~Park]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Central~~ ~~(Prince~~~~IN~~
~~5,000,000~~~~George’s~~ ~~County)~~ ~~.........................................................................~~

(DF) [Maryland Health] TOWNUniversity of Integrative OF
BROOKEVILLE INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS.
[BoardProvide a grant to the of Trustees of the Maryland
Inc.] COMMISSIONERSUniversity of Integrative Health, OF
TOWN BROOKEVILLE for the acquisition, planning,THE OF
design, construction, repair, renovation, reconstruction, site
[theimprovement, and capital equipping of Maryland
University of Integrative Health facility, including
improvements to the building’s parking lot, located in Howard
County)]County (Howard INFRASTRUCTURE
MARKET STREET,IMPROVEMENTS ON LOCATED IN THE
TOWN BROOKEVILLE. NOTWITHSTANDING SECTIONOF
1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE
JUNE 1, 2031 (MONTGOMERY COUNTY) ............... 350,000BEFORE

ZA02 LOCAL SENATE INITIATIVES

(CY) The Living Farm Heritage Museum. Provide a grant equal to
the lesser of (i) $200,000 or (ii) the amount of the matching fund
[Boardprovided, to the of Directors of the Howard County
Inc.] COUNTY EXECUTIVEAntique Farm Machinery Club,
COUNTY COUNCIL HOWARD COUNTY for theAND OF
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
[thereconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
at]James Clark Main Display Building the Living Farm
PROPERTY,Heritage Museum INCLUDING PUBLIC
RESTROOMS, SHOWERS,PUBLIC INDOOR AND OUTDOOR
ARCHERY, FACILITIES, DAIRYPICKLE BALL AND THE
SHRINE, located in Howard County. Notwithstanding Section
1(5) of this Act, the matching fund may consist of in kind
contributions or funds expended prior to the effective date of this
Act (Howard County) ................................................................... 200,000

– 4 –

PAGE 5
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

Chapter 537 of the Acts of 2020, as amended by Chapter 141 of the Acts of 2023

Section 1(3)

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

(BT) Kennedy Krieger Institute – Gompers School Building. Provide
a grant to the Board of Directors of the Kennedy Krieger
Institute, Inc. for the planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
equipping of the Gompers School Building. Notwithstanding
Section 1(7) of this Act, this grant may not terminate before
June 1, 2030 (Baltimore City) ..................................................... [250,000]
50,000

(BT–2) C.A.R.E. COMMUNITY RESOURCE CENTER. PROVIDE A
BOARD DIRECTORS C.A.R.E.GRANT TO THE OF OF THE
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION INC. ACQUISITION,FOR THE
PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR,
RENOVATION, RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE
C.A.R.E. COMMUNITYAND CAPITAL EQUIPPING OF THE
RESOURCE CENTER. NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7)
ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
35,000JUNE 1, 2031 (BALTIMORE CITY) .......................................

(BT–3) INSPIRE PLAN IMPLEMENTATION. PROVIDE A GRANT TO
BOARD DIRECTORS MIDWAY COMMUNITYTHE OF OF THE
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION ACQUISITION,FOR THE
PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR,
RENOVATION, RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE
INSPIRE PLANAND CAPITAL EQUIPPING OF THE
IMPLEMENTATION AND THE OUTSIDE AREAS
DARLEY PARK. NOTWITHSTANDINGSURROUNDING
SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT
JUNE 1, 2031 (BALTIMORE CITY)...... 85,000TERMINATE BEFORE

(BT–4) LEXGO SUPER CENTER. PROVIDE BOARDA GRANT TO THE
DIRECTORS NEW SOUTH CLIFTON PARKOF OF THE
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ACQUISITION,FOR THE
PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR,
RENOVATION, RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE
LEXGO SUPER CENTER.AND CAPITAL EQUIPPING OF THE
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS

– 5 –

PAGE 6
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
(BALTIMORE CITY) ............................................................... 40,000

(BT–5) DURHAM STREET INITIATIVE. PROVIDE A GRANT TO THE
BOARD DIRECTORS DURHAM STREET INITIATIVES,OF OF
INC. ACQUISITION, PLANNING, DESIGN,FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, RENOVATION,
RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE AND CAPITAL
1824–40 N DURHAM STREET.EQUIPPING OF
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
(BALTIMORE CITY) .............................................................. 40,000

Chapter 63 of the Acts of 2021

Section 1(3)

DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES

KA05 CAPITAL GRANTS AND LOANS ADMINISTRATION
(Statewide)

(E) Local Parks and Playgrounds Infrastructure. Provide funds for
grants to the county administrative units managing local parks
ACQUIRE,to design, construct and capital equip indoor and
outdoor park infrastructure and other capital–eligible projects
that enhance recreational amenities, including but not limited
to trails, playgrounds, and recreational facilities. No amount of
these funds shall be used for projects that are inaccessible to the
general public, require memberships, exclude the public because
of higher user fees, or which include office, residential, or
elaborate lodging facilities. To the greatest extent possible, these
funds shall be encumbered for projects during State Fiscal 2022.
The department shall administer funds in a similar manner as
Program Open Space Local grants for ACQUISITION AND
development projects with the exception that the matching
requirement is waived. Funding shall be used to supplement the
funds that would, in the absence of this funding, be made
available from State and non–State sources for the provision of
recreational amenities, and not to supplant such funds.
NOTWITHSTANDING THAT A CERTAIN PORTION OF THIS
AUTHORIZATION IS TO BE ADMINISTERED IN A SIMILAR
PROGRAM OPEN SPACE GRANTS,MANNER TO LOCAL A
PORTION OF THIS AUTHORIZATION MAY BE USED FOR

– 6 –

PAGE 7
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

ACQUISITION. Further provided that the remainder of this
authorization shall be allocated as follows: ................................ 85,000,000

(1) Allegany County............................... 1,000,000

(2) Anne Arundel County ...................... 9,000,000

(3) Baltimore City.................................. 10,000,000

(4) Baltimore County............................. 10,000,000

(5) Calvert County ................................. 1,000,000

(6) Caroline County............................... 1,000,000

(7) Carroll County ................................. 1,500,000

(8) Cecil County ..................................... 1,500,000

(9) Charles County ................................ 3,000,000

(10) Dorchester County............................ 1,000,000

(11) Frederick County.............................. 6,000,000

(12) Garrett County ................................. 1,000,000

(13) Harford County................................ 1,500,000

(14) Howard County................................ 8,000,000

(15) Kent County...................................... 1,000,000

(16) Montgomery County for the purpose
of the Pepco Powerline Trail
project............................................... 10,000,000

(17) Prince George’s County for the
purpose of the Central Avenue
Connector Trail project.................... 10,000,000

(18) Queen Anne’s County ....................... 1,000,000

(19) Somerset County .............................. 1,000,000

(20) St. Mary’s County ............................ 1,500,000

– 7 –

PAGE 8
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(21) Talbot County................................... 1,000,000

(22) Washington County.......................... 1,500,000

(23) Wicomico County.............................. 1,500,000

(24) Worcester County ............................. 1,000,000

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

~~(AZ)~~ ~~[at~~ ~~Park].~~~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ ~~Amphitheatre~~ ~~Central~~
~~[Maryland–National~~~~Provide~~ ~~a~~ ~~grant~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Capital~~ ~~Park~~ ~~and~~
~~Commission]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Planning~~
~~REDEVELOPMENT~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~design,~~ ~~construction,~~
~~repair,~~ ~~renovation,~~ ~~reconstruction,~~ ~~site~~ ~~improvement,~~ ~~and~~
~~[a~~ ~~new]~~ ~~[at~~~~capital~~ ~~equipping~~ ~~of~~ ~~amphitheatre~~ ~~located~~~~AN~~
~~Park]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Central~~ ~~(Prince~~~~IN~~
~~George’s~~ ~~County)~~ ~~.........................................................................~~ ~~11,000,000~~

[Prince Facility] GYMNASIUM(DS) George’s Indoor Sport AND
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Provide a grant to the Board of
[Prince Inc.] COLLEGEDirectors of George’s Pride Lacrosse,
PARK ACADEMY, INC. for the acquisition, planning, design,
construction, repair, renovation, reconstruction, site
[theimprovement, and capital equipping of Prince George’s
Facility] GYMNASIUM RECREATIONALIndoor Sport AND
FACILITIES 300,000(Prince George’s County) .........................................

ZA03 LOCAL SENATE INITIATIVES

(I) [CountyShadyside Community Center. Provide a grant to the
County]Executive and County Council of Anne Arundel
BOARD DIRECTORS SHADY SIDE COMMUNITYOF OF THE
CENTER for the acquisition, planning, design, construction,
repair, renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and
capital equipping of the Shadyside Community Center,
including repairs to the building’s roof, located in Anne Arundel
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,County. OF THIS
JUNE 1, 2031THIS GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
37,000(Anne Arundel County) ...............................................................

(Y) [Philemon House] CAREHAUS.Ministry’s Step Up Provide a
[The Inc.]grant to the Board of Directors of Philemon Ministry,

– 8 –

PAGE 9
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

AEQUO FOUNDATION, INC. for the acquisition, planning,THE
design, construction, repair, renovation, reconstruction, site
[Philemonimprovement, and capital equipping of the
House] CAREHAUSMinistry’s Step Up facility, located in
City. NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7)Baltimore OF THIS
ACT, JUNE 1,THIS GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
2031 (Baltimore City) ................................................................. 100,000

Chapter 63 of the Acts of 2021, as amended by Chapter 626 of the Acts of 2022

Section 1(3)

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

(EX) [Guide Facility] DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCERight OF
GEORGE’S COUNTY. Provide a grant to the Board of Directors
[Huntington Corporation]of the City Community Development
DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY,OF
INC. for the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Guide Facility] DIAMONDequipping of the Right
FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY PROPERTY,OF
located in Prince George’s County (Prince George’s County) .... 241,500

ZA02 LOCAL HOUSE OF DELEGATES INITIATIVES

(CG) [Guide Facility] DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCERight OF
GEORGE’S COUNTY. Provide a grant to the Board of Directors
[Huntington Corporation]of the City Community Development
DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY,OF
INC. for the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Guide Facility] DIAMONDequipping of the Right
FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY PROPERTY,OF
125,000located in Prince George’s County (Prince George’s County) ....

ZA03 LOCAL SENATE INITIATIVES

(AX) ~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~~~Waldorf~~ ~~Urban~~ ~~Park~~ ~~&~~ ~~Amphitheater~~
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~~~OF~~
~~CHARLES~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ BOYS & GIRLS
CLUB SOUTHERN MARYLAND – WALDORF CLUB PARK.OF
[the Association]Provide a grant to Westlake Business THE
~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~ ~~INC.~~~~OF~~

– 9 –

PAGE 10
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

~~BOARD~~ ~~CHARLES~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~COMMISSIONERS~~ BOYS &~~OF~~
GIRLS CLUB SOUTHERN MARYLAND, INC. for theOF
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
~~Waldorf~~ ~~Urban~~ ~~Park,~~ ~~including~~ ~~improvements~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~site’s~~
~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~~~grounds~~ ~~and~~ ~~a~~ ~~new~~ ~~amphitheater~~ THE
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~~~OF~~
~~CHARLES~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ BOYS & GIRLS
CLUB SOUTHERN MARYLAND – WALDORF CLUB PARK,OF
County. NOTWITHSTANDING SECTIONlocated in Charles
1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE
JUNE 1, 2031 100,000(Charles County) .................................BEFORE

(CP) [Guide Facility] DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCERight OF
GEORGE’S COUNTY. Provide a grant to the Board of Directors
[Huntington Corporation]of the City Community Development
DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY,OF
INC. for the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Guide Facility] DIAMONDequipping of the Right
FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY PROPERTY,OF
58,500located in Prince George’s County (Prince George’s County) ....

(CQ) [Guide Facility] DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCERight OF
GEORGE’S COUNTY. Provide a grant to the Board of Directors
[Huntington Corporation]of the City Community Development
DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY,OF
INC. for the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Guide Facility] DIAMONDequipping of the Right
FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY PROPERTY,OF
located in Prince George’s County (Prince George’s County) .... 125,000

Chapter 63 of the Acts of 2021, as amended by Chapter 141 of the Acts of 2023

Section 1(3)

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

(DU) [BoardAshland Madison Apartments. Provide a grant to the of
Inc.] MARKETDirectors of C.A.R.E. Community Association,
CENTER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION for
the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,

– 10 –

PAGE 11
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
equipping of the Ashland Madison Apartments (Baltimore
1,000,000City) ..............................................................................................

Chapter 344 of the Acts of 2022

Section 1(3)

DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES

KA05 CAPITAL GRANTS AND LOANS ADMINISTRATION
(Statewide)

(B) Local Parks and Playgrounds Infrastructure. Provide funds for
grants to the county administrative units managing local parks
to acquire, design, construct, and capital equip indoor and
outdoor park infrastructure and other capital–eligible projects
that enhance recreational amenities, including but not limited
to trails, playgrounds, and recreational facilities. No amount of
these funds shall be used for projects that are inaccessible to
the general public, require memberships, exclude the public
because of higher user fees, or include residential, or elaborate
lodging facilities. The Department of Natural Resources shall
administer funds in a similar manner as Program Open Space
local grants for acquisition and development projects with the
exception that the matching requirement is waived .................. 85,000,000

Notwithstanding that a certain portion of this authorization is
to be administered in a similar manner to Program Open Space
local grants, a portion of this authorization may be used for
acquisition and shall be allocated to certain nonprofit
organizations, local governments, and the Department of
Natural Resources as follows:

(51) [Waldorf Urban Park and
Amphitheater] ~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~
~~CLUB~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~
CHARLES~~(Charles~~ ~~County)~~
COUNTY 3,000,000

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

(CR) [Old Properties] DIAMONDTown Bowie – Historical
FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY. Provide aOF
[Huntingtongrant to the City Community Development
Corporation] BOARD DIRECTORS DIAMONDOF OF THE
– 11 –

PAGE 12
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY, INC. for theOF
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
[historic Bowie] DIAMONDproperties located in Old Town THE
FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY PROPERTY,OF
PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY (Prince George’sLOCATED IN
County) ........................................................................................ 500,000

(DT) [The Acquisition]Johns Hopkins House, Inc. – Whites Hall
WHITEHALL. Provide a grant to the Board of Directors of the
[Johns Inc.] BRANDYWINE FOUNDATION,Hopkins House,
INC. acquisition, PLANNING, DESIGN,for the
CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, RENOVATION,
RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE AND CAPITAL
[Whites Hall] WHITEHALL.ofEQUIPPING
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031 (AnneGRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
243,000Arundel County) ..........................................................................

[Maryland Center.](EN) Sports & Entertainment Innovation
PRINCE GEORGE’S SPORTS INNOVATION CENTER. Provide
[Maryland Inc.] BOARDa grant to the Sports Council, OF
DIRECTORS PRINCE GEORGE’S SPORTS, INC. forOF THE
the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Marylandequipping of the Sports & Entertainment Innovation
Center] PRINCE GEORGE’S SPORTS INNOVATION CENTER
(Prince George’s County) .............................................................. 20,000,000

(GB) – REDEVELOPMENT,Northern Community Action Center
RECONSTRUCTION, EXPANSION. Provide a grant to theAND
Board of Directors of the Baltimore City Community Action
Partnership for the acquisition, planning, design, construction,
repair, renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and
PHASED–INcapital equipping OF A PROJECT TO BROADEN
[project]of the Northern Community Action CenterTHE USE
(5225 YORK ROAD) SITE TO INCREASE OPPORTUNITIES
CARE, EDUCATIONAL,FOR HEALTH AND SOCIAL
GREATER GOVANSENTERPRISE USES AS A PART OF THE
YORK ROAD CORRIDOR [3,000,000](Baltimore City) ....................PLAN
1,850,000

(GB–1) NORTHERN COMMUNITY ACTION CENTER –

– 12 –

PAGE 13
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

REDEVELOPMENT RECONSTRUCTION STUDY.AND
PROVIDE BOARD DIRECTORSA GRANT TO THE OF OF THE
BALTIMORE CITY COMMUNITY ACTION PARTNERSHIP
BALTIMORE CITY DEPARTMENT PLANNINGAND THE OF
FOR PRELIMINARY PLANNING INCLUDING
STUDIES,PREDEVELOPMENT AND FEASIBILITY AND
NORTHERN COMMUNITY ACTION CENTERDESIGN OF THE
GREATER GOVANS YORKPROJECT AS A PART OF THE
ROAD CORRIDOR (BALTIMORE CITY) ....................... 300,000PLAN

(GB–2) OLD DINER SITE – ACQUISITION RESTORATION.AND
PROVIDE BOARD DIRECTORSA GRANT TO THE OF OF THE
BELVEDERE IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION, INC. FOR THE
ACQUISITION, PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION,
REPAIR, RENOVATION, RECONSTRUCTION, SITE
IMPROVEMENT, AND CAPITAL EQUIPPING OF AN
5837–5841 YORK ROAD,UNIMPROVED PARCEL KNOWN AS
A KEY INITIATIVE FOR THE REVITALIZATION OF THE
NORTH GATEWAY GREATER GOVANS YORK ROADOF THE
CORRIDOR AREA. NOTWITHSTANDINGPLANNING
SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT
550,000JUNE 1, 2031 (BALTIMORE CITY) .....TERMINATE BEFORE

(GB–3) WOODBOURNE AVE FOUR CORNERS PROJECT. PROVIDE
BOARD DIRECTORS GOVANSA GRANT TO THE OF OF
ECUMENICAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (GEDCO)
FOR PRELIMINARY PLANNING INCLUDING
STUDIES,PREDEVELOPMENT AND FEASIBILITY AND
“THE MARKETS YORK, 5313–15 YORKDESIGN OF ON
ROAD” “WOODBOURNE AVE FOUR CORNERSOR
PROJECT” TRANSIT AND ANCHOR INSTITUTION ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT.RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
300,000(BALTIMORE CITY) ...............................................................

(GJ) [Charles County Multicultural Recreational and Amphitheatre
Facilities] CHARLES COUNTY SPORTS WELLNESSAND
CENTER. Provide a grant to Charles County for the acquisition,
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of the
[Multicultural Facilities]Recreational and Amphitheatre
CHARLES COUNTY SPORTS WELLNESS CENTERAND

– 13 –

PAGE 14
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(Charles County) ......................................................................... 1,000,000

(GQ) [Maryland Health] NEW CULTURALUniversity of Integrative
CENTER. [BoardProvide a grant to the of Trustees of the
Inc.] COLUMBIAMaryland University of Integrative Health,
CENTER THEATRICAL ARTS for the acquisition,FOR THE
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
[thereconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
Maryland University of Integrative Health facility, including
improvements to the building’s parking lot and new
facility] MIXED–USEconstruction for the A CULTURAL ARTS
COLUMBIA.CENTER LOCATED IN DOWNTOWN
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
[2,500,000](Howard County) ..........................................................................
1,000,000

(GQ–1) LAKE KITTAMAQUNDI LAKEFRONT IMPROVEMENT.
PROVIDE BOARD DIRECTORSA GRANT TO THE OF OF THE
COLUMBIA ASSOCIATION, INC. ACQUISITION,FOR THE
PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR,
RENOVATION, RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE
LAKE KITTAMAQUNDIAND CAPITAL EQUIPPING OF THE
LAKEFRONT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
750,000(HOWARD COUNTY) .............................................................

(GQ–2) IHOMES. PROVIDE BOARDA GRANT TO THE OF
DIRECTORS IHOMES, INC. ACQUISITION,OF FOR THE
PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR,
RENOVATION, RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE
IHOMESAND CAPITAL EQUIPPING OF THREE
LOW–INCOME PROPERTIES.HOUSING
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
(HOWARD COUNTY).............................................................. 750,000

(HK) ~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~~~Poiema~~ ~~Recovery~~ ~~Residence~~ ~~–~~ ~~RH3~~ ~~OF~~
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~ ~~CHARLES~~
~~COUNTY~~ ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF
SOUTHERN MARYLAND – WALDORF CLUB PARK. Provide a
[the Inc.]grant to Board of Directors of Poiema Movement, THE

– 14 –

PAGE 15
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~ ~~INC.~~~~OF~~
~~BOARD~~ ~~CHARLES~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~COMMISSIONERS~~ BOYS &~~OF~~
GIRLS CLUB SOUTHERN MARYLAND, INC. for theOF
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of ~~a~~
~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~~~recovery~~ ~~residence~~ ~~facility~~ THE ~~OF~~
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~ ~~CHARLES~~
~~COUNTY~~ ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF
SOUTHERN MARYLAND – WALDORF CLUB PARK.
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
450,000(Charles County) .........................................................................

(HO) [New Park] HANKO BUILDING.Carrollton Skate Provide a grant
[Countyto the Executive and County Council of Prince George’s
County] MAYOR CITY COUNCIL CITY NEWAND OF THE OF
CARROLLTON for the acquisition, planning, design, construction,
IMPROVEMENT,repair, renovation, reconstruction, andSITE
[New Park] HANKOcapital equipping of the Carrollton Skate
BUILDING. NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS
JUNE 1, 2031THIS GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
(Prince George’s County) ............................................................... 250,000

~~(IU)~~ ~~[at~~ ~~Park].~~~~Prince~~ ~~George’s~~ ~~County~~ ~~Amphitheatre~~ ~~Central~~
~~[Maryland–National~~~~Provide~~ ~~a~~ ~~grant~~ ~~to~~ ~~the~~ ~~Capital~~ ~~Park~~ ~~and~~
~~Commission]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Planning~~
~~REDEVELOPMENT~~ ~~AUTHORITY~~ ~~for~~ ~~the~~ ~~design,~~ ~~construction,~~
~~repair,~~ ~~renovation,~~ ~~reconstruction,~~ ~~site~~ ~~improvement,~~ ~~and~~
~~[a~~ ~~new]~~ ~~[at~~~~capital~~ ~~equipping~~ ~~of~~ ~~Amphitheatre~~ ~~located~~~~AN~~
~~Park]~~ ~~PRINCE~~ ~~GEORGE’S~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~Central~~ ~~(Prince~~~~IN~~
~~George’s~~ ~~County)~~ ~~.........................................................................~~ ~~4,000,000~~

ZA02 LOCAL SENATE INITIATIVES

(AF) HLMS Property Reclamation and Rejuvenation Program.
Provide a grant to the Board of Directors of the
Hamilton–Lauraville Main Street, Inc. for the acquisition,
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
[hazardous/vacant Street]properties on Main PROPERTIES
HISTORIC MARKLEY BUILDINGINCLUDING THE LOCATED
BALTIMORE CITY (Baltimore City) ..................................... 200,000IN

(AG) Johnston Square. Provide a grant to the Board of Directors of
– 15 –

PAGE 16
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

Fund for Educational Excellence, Inc. for the acquisition,
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of the
[outside surrounding]areas JohnstonINTERIOR AREAS OF
Square. Notwithstanding Section 1(6) of this Act, the Maryland
Historical Trust may not require a grantee that receives funds
from this grant to convey or grant a perpetual easement
200,000(Baltimore City) ...........................................................................

(CA) ~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~~~Poiema~~ ~~Recovery~~ ~~Residence~~ ~~–~~ ~~RH3~~ ~~OF~~
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~ ~~CHARLES~~
~~COUNTY~~ ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF
SOUTHERN MARYLAND – WALDORF CLUB PARK. Provide a
[the Inc.]grant to Board of Directors of Poiema Movement, THE
~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND,~~ ~~INC.~~~~OF~~
~~BOARD~~ ~~CHARLES~~ ~~COUNTY~~ ~~COMMISSIONERS~~ BOYS &~~OF~~
GIRLS CLUB SOUTHERN MARYLAND, INC. for theOF
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of ~~a~~
~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~~~recovery~~ ~~residence~~ ~~facility~~ THE ~~OF~~
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~ ~~CHARLES~~
~~COUNTY~~ ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF
SOUTHERN MARYLAND – WALDORF CLUB PARK.
NOTWITHSTANDING SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS
JUNE 1, 2031GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE BEFORE
150,000(Charles County) .........................................................................

ZA03 LOCAL HOUSE OF DELEGATES INITIATIVES

(BE) St. Johns Methodist Church Restoration. Provide a grant to the
Board of Directors of the Living Water at St. Johns Chapel for
the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
NOTWITHSTANDINGequipping of the St. Johns Chapel.
SECTION 1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT SHALL
JUNE 1, 2024 (Calvert County) .....................TERMINATE ON 120,000

Chapter 344 of the Acts of 2022, as amended by Chapter 141 of the Acts of 2023

Section 1(3)

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

(JV) [HistoricFort to 400 Commission. Provide a grant to the St.

– 16 –

PAGE 17
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

Commission] MARYLAND STADIUMMary’s City Fort to 400
AUTHORITY for Phase 2 design, including property surveyance
and archaeological, geological, and environmental analysis
related to the 400th anniversary of the founding of Maryland
125,000(St. Mary’s County) .....................................................................

ZA03 LOCAL HOUSE OF DELEGATES INITIATIVES

(DV) [HistoricFort to 400 Commission. Provide a grant to the St.
Commission] MARYLAND STADIUMMary’s City Fort to 400
AUTHORITY for Phase 2 design, including property surveyance
and archaeological, geotechnical, and environmental analysis
(St. Mary’s County) ..................................................................... 100,000

Chapter 102 of the Acts of 2023

Section 1(3)

ZA00 MISCELLANEOUS GRANT PROGRAMS

(O) Inner Harbor Promenade. Provide a grant to the Board of
Directors of the Waterfront Management Authority for the
acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
infrastructure improvements for the Inner Harbor Promenade
(Baltimore City)............................................................................ [30,000,000]
22,000,000

(O–1) RASH FIELD. PROVIDE BOARDA GRANT TO THE OF
DIRECTORS WATERFRONT MANAGEMENTOF THE
~~PARTNERSHIP~~ ~~BALTIMORE,~~ ~~INC.~~ AUTHORITY~~OF~~ FOR THE
ACQUISITION, PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION,
REPAIR, RENOVATION, RECONSTRUCTION, SITE
IMPROVEMENT, RASH FIELDAND CAPITAL EQUIPPING OF
(BALTIMORE CITY)............................................................... 8,000,000

[Maryland Center.](T) Sports and Entertainment Innovation
PRINCE GEORGE’S SPORTS INNOVATION CENTER. Provide
[Maryland Inc.] BOARDa grant to the Sports Council, OF
DIRECTORS PRINCE GEORGE’S SPORTS, INC. forOF THE
the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Marylandequipping of the Sports and Entertainment
Center] PRINCE GEORGE’S SPORTSInnovation
INNOVATION CENTER (Prince George’s County) ..................... 20,000,000
– 17 –

PAGE 18
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(AD) Washington County Museum of Fine Arts. Provide a grant to
[Countythe Executive and County Council of Washington
County] BOARD DIRECTORS WASHINGTONOF OF THE
COUNTY MUSEUM FINE ARTS, INC. for the acquisition,OF
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of the
Washington County Museum of Fine Arts (Washington
County) ........................................................................................ 1,250,000

~~[(AJ)]~~ [Roof Repairs]Maryland Rural Development Corporation –
~~(AJ–1)~~ GREENSBORO LIBRARY. Provide a grant to the Board of
Directors of the Maryland Rural Development Corporation for
the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Marylandequipping of the Rural Development Corporation
property] GREENSBORO LIBRARY, HVACINCLUDING
REPLACEMENT, CAROLINE COUNTY (CarolineLOCATED IN
[300,000]County) ........................................................................................
~~100,000~~
110,000

~~(AJ–2)~~ GOLDSBORO TOWN HALL TRAIN STATION. PROVIDEAND
(AJ–1) MAYOR COUNCIL GOLDSBOROA GRANT TO THE AND OF
ACQUISITION, PLANNING, DESIGN,FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, RENOVATION,
RECONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT,SITE AND CAPITAL
GOLDSBORO TOWN HALL TRAINEQUIPPING OF THE AND
STATION CAROLINE COUNTY (CAROLINELOCATED IN
COUNTY) ............................................................................... ~~200,000~~
190,000

(BJ) [Electronic]Glen Burnie Rotary Park – Sign AND
IMPROVEMENTS. Provide a grant to the County Executive and
County Council of Anne Arundel County for the acquisition,
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
[anreconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
electronic] signA AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS AT THE
GLEN BURNIE ROTARY PARK (Anne Arundel County).......... 50,000

(EQ) [College Pool] ~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~of Southern Maryland ~~OF~~
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~ ~~AND~~
~~POOL~~ CHARLES COUNTY ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ SPORTS
WELLNESS CENTER. [CollegeProvide a grant to ~~the~~ ofAND

– 18 –

PAGE 19
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 722

Maryland] ~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~SOUTHERN~~Southern ~~OF~~
~~MARYLAND,~~ ~~INC.~~ ~~BOARD~~ ~~CHARLES~~ ~~COUNTY~~~~OF~~
~~COMMISSIONERS~~ CHARLES COUNTY for the acquisition,
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of the
[College pool] ~~BOYS~~ ~~&~~ ~~GIRLS~~ ~~CLUB~~of Southern Maryland ~~OF~~
~~SOUTHERN~~ ~~MARYLAND~~ ~~–~~ ~~WALDORF~~ ~~CLUB~~ ~~PARK~~ ~~AND~~
~~POOL~~ CHARLES COUNTY ~~CIRCUIT~~ ~~COURTHOUSE~~ SPORTS
WELLNESS CENTER. NOTWITHSTANDING SECTIONAND
1(7) ACT,OF THIS THIS GRANT MAY NOT TERMINATE
JUNE 1, 2031 (Charles County) .................................BEFORE 1,000,000

(GQ) [BoardAshland Madison Apartments. Provide a grant to the of
Inc.] MARKETDirectors of C.A.R.E. Community Association,
CENTER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION for
the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
equipping of the Ashland Madison Apartments property
(Baltimore City) ........................................................................... 340,000

(JJ) [The Center]Bowie–Mitchellville (MD) Diamond Foundation
DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY.OF
[TheProvide a grant to the Board of Directors of
Inc.]Bowie–Mitchellville (MD) Diamond Foundation, THE
DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCE GEORGE’S COUNTY,OF
INC. for the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[Bowie–Mitchellvilleequipping of the (MD) Diamond
Center] DIAMOND FOUNDATION PRINCEFoundation OF
GEORGE’S COUNTY PRINCEPROPERTY LOCATED IN
GEORGE’S COUNTY (Prince George’s County) ......................... 400,000

(KW) Everyman Theatre. Provide a grant to the Board of Directors of
the Everyman Theatre, Incorporated for the acquisition,
planning, design, construction, repair, renovation,
reconstruction, site improvement, and capital equipping of
[theinfrastructure improvements to Thomas Building at 101
Street] 315 WESTEast Baltimore Street and One Light
FAYETTE STREET to support the expansion of Everyman
Theatre (Baltimore City).............................................................. 100,000

(LS) [HistoricFort to 400 Commission. Provide a grant to the St.
Commission] MARYLAND STADIUMMary’s City Fort to 400
AUTHORITY for Phase 2 design, including property surveyance
– 19 –

PAGE 20
Ch. 722 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

and archeological, geotechnical, and environmental analysis
(St. Mary’s County) ..................................................................... 25,000

ZA02 LOCAL HOUSE OF DELEGATES INITIATIVES

(M) [BoardAshland Madison Apartments. Provide a grant to the of
Inc.] MARKETDirectors of C.A.R.E. Community Association,
CENTER COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION for
the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
equipping of the Ashland Madison Apartments property
(Baltimore City) ........................................................................... 100,000

(BK) [Long Center]Reach Village Shared Kitchen. Provide a grant
to the County Executive and County Council of Howard County
for the acquisition, planning, design, construction, repair,
renovation, reconstruction, site improvement, and capital
[shared Center]equipping of the kitchen at Long Reach Village
SHARED KITCHEN, HOWARD COUNTYLOCATED IN
(Howard County) .......................................................................... 200,000

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect June
1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 20 –