PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 867

Chapter 867

(Senate Bill 991)

AN ACT concerning

Behavioral Health – Language Assistance Services Pilot Program

FOR the purpose of establishing the Language Assistance Services Pilot Program in the
Behavioral Health Administration to provide grants to local behavioral health
authorities to reimburse behavioral health providers for language assistance
services for certain children, parents, and legal guardians; and generally relating to
the Language Assistance Services Pilot Program.

BY adding to
Article – Health – General
Section 10–929 to be under the new part “Part V. Language Assistance Services Pilot
Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

10–927. RESERVED.

10–928. RESERVED.

PART V. LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES PILOT PROGRAM.

10–929.

(A) IN SECTION, “PROGRAM” LANGUAGE ASSISTANCETHIS MEANS THE
SERVICES PILOT PROGRAM.

(B) THERE LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES PILOT PROGRAM.IS A

(C) THE PROGRAM TO:PURPOSE OF THE IS

(1) PROVIDE MEANINGFUL ACCESS TO BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY;TO CHILDREN WITH LIMITED AND

(2) ESTABLISH A COMPETITIVE GRANT PROCESS FOR LOCAL
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH AUTHORITIES TO PROVIDE REIMBURSEMENT TO BEHAVIORAL
– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 867 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

SERVICES,HEALTH PROVIDERS FOR LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE INCLUDING
TO:INTERPRETATION AND TRANSLATION SERVICES

(I) CHILDREN ENGLISHWITH LIMITED PROFICIENCY
SERVICES;ACCESSING AND RECEIVING BEHAVIORAL HEALTH AND

(II) PARENTS AND LEGAL GUARDIANS COORDINATING THE
PROVISION OF BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICES AND MAKING HEALTH CARE
CHILD.DECISIONS REGARDING THE SERVICES ON BEHALF OF A

(D) THE ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM.SHALL ADMINISTER THE

(E) ~~ON~~ ~~OCTOBER~~ ~~1,~~ ~~2024,~~ THE ADMINISTRATION~~OR~~ ~~BEFORE~~ ~~THE~~ SHALL
~~PROGRAM,~~~~ADOPT~~ ~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~TO~~ IMPLEMENT ~~AND~~ ~~ADMINISTER~~ ~~THE~~ ~~INCLUDING~~
~~REGULATIONS~~ ~~THAT~~ ~~ESTABLISH~~ ~~THE~~ ~~FOLLOWING~~ THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS
PROGRAM:AS PART OF ADMINISTERING THE

(1) A REPORT:REQUIREMENT THAT A GRANTEE DOCUMENT AND

(I) THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN WHO RECEIVED LANGUAGE
SPOKEN;ASSISTANCE SERVICES BROKEN DOWN BY PRIMARY LANGUAGE

(II) THE NUMBER OF PARENTS AND LEGAL GUARDIANS WHO
RECEIVED LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES BROKEN DOWN BY PRIMARY
SPOKEN;LANGUAGE AND

(III) THE NUMBER OF LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES THAT
WERE REIMBURSED BROKEN DOWN BY THE TYPE OF BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICE
PROVIDED; AND

(2) A THAT,REQUIREMENT TO REQUEST AND RECEIVE A
PROGRAM GRANTEE, MUST:REIMBURSEMENT FROM A A HEALTH CARE PROVIDER

(I) BE A LICENSED AND ACCREDITED BEHAVIORAL HEALTH
PROVIDER; AND

(II) HAVE CURRENT,A WRITTEN LANGUAGE ACCESS PLAN
DEMONSTRATING HOW THE PROVIDER ENSURES MEANINGFUL ACCESS TO ITS
ENGLISHPROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH LIMITED
PROFICIENCY.

(F) THE (E)(2)(II)LANGUAGE ACCESS PLAN REQUIRED UNDER SUBSECTION
SHALL:OF THIS SECTION

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 867

(1) BE PROVIDED TO THE GRANTEE IN ADDITION TO ANY REQUEST
SERVICES;FOR REIMBURSEMENT FOR LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE AND

(2) INCLUDE:

(I) A SELF–ASSESSMENT OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER
ENGLISHWHICH THE PROVIDER MAY ENCOUNTER AN INDIVIDUAL WITH LIMITED
PROFICIENCY;

(II) A SELF–ASSESSMENT OF THE NUMBER OR PROPORTION OF
ENGLISHINDIVIDUALS WITH LIMITED PROFICIENCY FROM EACH LANGUAGE GROUP
PROVIDER’SIN THE SERVICE AREA TO DETERMINE APPROPRIATE LANGUAGE
SERVICES;ASSISTANCE

(III) THE PROVIDER’S PROCEDURE FOR IDENTIFYING AN
INDIVIDUAL’S LANGUAGE;PRIMARY

(IV) THE PROVIDER’S PROCEDURE FOR PROVIDING LANGUAGE
SERVICES,ASSISTANCE INCLUDING ORAL AND WRITTEN LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE
SERVICES;

(V) THE PROVIDER’S PROCEDURE FOR ENSURING EFFECTIVE
ENGLISHCOMMUNICATION WITH INDIVIDUALS WITH LIMITED PROFICIENCY IN
FREQUENTLY;LANGUAGES ENCOUNTERED LESS

(VI) THE PROVIDER’S PLAN FOR TRAINING STAFF ON THE
PROVIDER’S PROCEDURES;POLICIES AND AND

(VII) THE PROVIDER’S PROCEDURE FOR PROVIDING NOTICE OF
LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES AT NO COST TO INDIVIDUALS WITH LIMITED
ENGLISH PROFICIENCY.

(G) FOR 2025 2026, GOVERNOREACH OF FISCAL YEARS AND THE SHALL
$120,000INCLUDE IN THE ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF TO THE
PROGRAM.

(H) THE ADMINISTRATION AWARD, MINIMUM,SHALL AT A THREE GRANTS
$30,000 2025 2026.OF EACH IN EACH OF FISCAL YEARS AND

(I) ON DECEMBER 1, 2025, 2026, 2027,OR BEFORE AND THE
ADMINISTRATION GOVERNOR AND, §SHALL SUBMIT TO THE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
2–1257 STATE GOVERNMENT ARTICLE, GENERAL ASSEMBLYOF THE THE A REPORT
PROGRAM INCLUDES:ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE THAT
– 3 –

PAGE 4
Ch. 867 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(1) THE ENGLISHTOTAL NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS WITH LIMITED
PROFICIENCY WHO RECEIVED LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES BROKEN DOWN BY
JURISDICTION;

(2) THE TOTAL NUMBER OF CHILDREN WHO RECEIVED LANGUAGE
SPOKEN;ASSISTANCE SERVICES BROKEN DOWN BY PRIMARY LANGUAGE

(3) THE TOTAL NUMBER OF PARENTS AND LEGAL GUARDIANS WHO
RECEIVED LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES BROKEN DOWN BY PRIMARY
SPOKEN;LANGUAGE

(4) THE TOTAL NUMBER OF LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE SERVICES THAT
WERE REIMBURSED BROKEN DOWN BY THE TYPE OF BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SERVICE
PROVIDED; AND

(5) THE TOTAL AMOUNT IN GRANT MONEY PROVIDED TO EACH
YEAR.GRANTEE DURING THE IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING FISCAL

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect July
1, 2024. It shall remain effective for a period of 4 years and, at the end of June 30, 2028,
this Act, with no further action required by the General Assembly, shall be abrogated and
of no further force and effect.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 4 –