PAGE 1
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 768

Chapter 768

(Senate Bill 975)

AN ACT concerning

~~Public~~ ~~Safety~~ Maryland Department of Health – Reproductive Health Care
Clinic Security Grant Program – Establishment
(Supporting Reproductive Health Care Clinics Act)

FOR the purpose of establishing the Reproductive Health Care Clinic Security Grant
Program in the ~~Governor’s~~ ~~Office~~ ~~of~~ ~~Crime~~ ~~Prevention,~~ ~~Youth,~~ ~~and~~ ~~Victim~~ ~~Services~~
Maryland Department of Health to assist reproductive health care clinics in the
State with costs associated with security improvements and safety operational
expenses; and generally relating to the Reproductive Health Care Clinic Security
Grant Program.

BY repealing and reenacting, without amendments,
Article – Health – General
Section 4–301(a), (h), and (j)
Annotated Code of Maryland
(2023 Replacement Volume)

BY adding to
Article – ~~Public~~ ~~Safety~~ Health – General
Section ~~4–1701~~ 13–5201 to be under the new subtitle “Subtitle ~~17.~~ 52. Reproductive
Health Care Clinic Security Grant Program”
Annotated Code of Maryland
~~(2022~~ ~~Replacement~~ ~~Volume~~ ~~and~~ ~~2023~~ ~~Supplement)~~ (2023 Replacement Volume)

SECTION 1. BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF MARYLAND,
That the Laws of Maryland read as follows:

Article – Health – General

4–301.

(a) In this subtitle the following words have the meanings indicated.

(h) (1) “Health care provider” means:

(i) A person who is licensed, certified, or otherwise authorized under
the Health Occupations Article or § 13–516 of the Education Article to provide health care
in the ordinary course of business or practice of a profession or in an approved education or
training program; or

– 1 –

PAGE 2
Ch. 768 2024 LAWS OF MARYLAND

(ii) A facility where health care is provided to patients or recipients,
including a facility as defined in § 10–101(g) of this article, a hospital as defined in §
19–301 of this article, a related institution as defined in § 19–301 of this article, a health
maintenance organization as defined in § 19–701(g) of this article, an outpatient clinic, a
medical laboratory, a comprehensive crisis response center, a crisis stabilization center,
and a crisis treatment center established under § 7.5–207 of this article.

(2) “Health care provider” includes the agents, employees, officers, and
directors of a facility and the agents and employees of a health care provider.

(j) “Legally protected health care” means all reproductive health services,
medications, and supplies related to:

(1) The provision of abortion care; and

(2) Other sensitive health services as determined by the Secretary based
on the recommendations of the Protected Health Care Commission established under §
4–310 of this subtitle.

~~Article~~ ~~–~~ ~~Public~~ ~~Safety~~

SUBTITLE ~~17.~~ 52. REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE CLINIC SECURITY GRANT
PROGRAM.

~~4–1701.~~ 13–5201.

(A) (1) IN THIS SECTION THE FOLLOWING WORDS HAVE THE MEANINGS
INDICATED.

~~(2)~~ ~~“EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR”~~ ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR~~~~MEANS~~ ~~THE~~ ~~OF~~
~~GOVERNOR’S~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~CRIME~~ ~~PREVENTION,~~ ~~YOUTH,~~ ~~VICTIM~~ ~~SERVICES.~~~~THE~~ ~~OF~~ ~~AND~~

~~(3)~~ (2) “PROGRAM” REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CAREMEANS THE
CLINIC SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM.

(3) “REPRODUCTIVE CLINIC”HEALTH CARE MEANS A HEALTH CARE
PROVIDER, § 4–301(H)(1)(II) ARTICLE,AS DEFINED IN OF THIS THAT PROVIDES
CARE, § 4–301(J) ARTICLE.LEGALLY PROTECTED HEALTH AS DEFINED IN OF THIS

(B) THERE REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE CLINIC SECURITY GRANTIS A
PROGRAM ~~GOVERNOR’S~~ ~~OFFICE~~ ~~CRIME~~ ~~PREVENTION,~~ ~~YOUTH,~~IN THE ~~OF~~ ~~AND~~
~~VICTIM~~ ~~SERVICES~~ DEPARTMENT.

(C) THE ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR~~ SECRETARY SHALL ADMINISTER THE
PROGRAM.

– 2 –

PAGE 3
WES MOORE, Governor Ch. 768

(D) THE PROGRAMPURPOSE OF THE IS TO ASSIST REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
STATECARE CLINICS IN THE WITH THE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH SECURITY
IMPROVEMENTS, HARDENING,INCLUDING INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FACILITY
LIGHTING, BARRIERS,PERIMETER FENCING AND OTHER DOOR LOCKS AND ACCESS
SYSTEMS, CAMERAS, ALARMS, BUTTONS,CONTROL SECURITY PANIC LOCKDOWN
SYSTEMS, SYSTEMS.AND PUBLIC ADDRESS

(E) THE ~~EXECUTIVE~~ ~~DIRECTOR~~ SECRETARY SHALL ESTABLISH
FOR:PROCEDURES

(1) THE PROCESSES;APPLICATION AND AWARD AND

(2) THE CRITERIA A REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE CLINIC MUST
PROGRAM.MEET TO QUALIFY FOR A GRANT UNDER THE

(F) THE DEPARTMENT RELEASE, PUBLISH,MAY NOT OR OTHERWISE
DISCLOSE:

(1) THE FOR,PERSONAL INFORMATION OF AN INDIVIDUAL APPLYING
IN, PROGRAM;PARTICIPATING OR ADMINISTERING A GRANT UNDER THE OR

(2) INFORMATION REGARDING A GRANT AWARDED UNDER THE
PROGRAM IF THE DISCLOSURE WOULD COMPROMISE THE SAFETY OF THE GRANT
RECIPIENT.

(G) (1) FOR 2026, GOVERNORFISCAL YEAR THE MAY INCLUDE IN THE
$500,000 PROGRAM.ANNUAL BUDGET BILL AN APPROPRIATION OF TO THE

(2) UP 5% PROGRAMTO OF THE MONEY APPROPRIATED TO THE MAY
EXPENSES.BE USED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE

SECTION 2. AND BE IT FURTHER ENACTED, That this Act shall take effect
October 1, 2024.

Approved by the Governor, May 16, 2024.

– 3 –